.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2021 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of both the OpenPBS software ("OpenPBS")
.\" and the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" OpenPBS is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" OpenPBS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public
.\" License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is commercially licensed software that shares a common core with
.\" the OpenPBS software.  For a copy of the commercial license terms and
.\" conditions, go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/agreement.html) or contact the
.\" Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair's dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of OpenPBS and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair's trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "OpenPBS®", "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair's logos is
.\" subject to Altair's trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs 8B "6 May 2020" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs 
\- Start, stop, restart, or get the PIDs of PBS daemons


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs 
[start|stop|restart|status] 


.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pbs
command starts, stops or restarts all PBS daemons on the local machine, or
reports the PIDs of all daemons when given the 
.I status
argument.  Does not affect other hosts.

You can start, stop, restart, or status the PBS daemons using the 
.B systemctl
command.

.B Caveats
.br
This command operates only on daemons that are marked as active
in pbs.conf.  For example, if PBS_START_MOM is set to 0 in the local
pbs.conf, this command will not operate on pbs_mom, and will not
start, stop, or restart pbs_mom.

This command is typically placed in /etc/init.d so that 
PBS starts up automatically.  

.B Required Privilege
.br
Root privilege is required to use this command.

.SH ARGUMENTS

.IP "restart" 10
All daemons on the local machine are stopped, then they are restarted.
PBS reports the name of the license server and the 
number and type of licenses available.

.IP "start" 10
Each daemon on the local machine is started.  PBS reports the number
and type of licenses available, as well as the name of the license
server.  Any running jobs are killed.

.IP "status" 10
PBS reports the PID of each daemon on the local machine.

.IP "stop" 10
Each daemon on the local machine is stopped, and its PID is reported.


.SH SEE ALSO
pbs_mom(8B), pbs_server(8B), pbs_sched(8B), and pbs_comm(8B)
