.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2021 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of both the OpenPBS software ("OpenPBS")
.\" and the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" OpenPBS is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" OpenPBS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public
.\" License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is commercially licensed software that shares a common core with
.\" the OpenPBS software.  For a copy of the commercial license terms and
.\" conditions, go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/agreement.html) or contact the
.\" Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair's dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of OpenPBS and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair's trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "OpenPBS®", "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair's logos is
.\" subject to Altair's trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs.conf 8B "6 May 2020" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs.conf
- PBS configuration parameters

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I /etc/pbs.conf 
file contains PBS configuration parameters.  You may also set these using
environment variables.  Environment variables override settings in 
.I pbs.conf.

To specify an alternate location for 
.I pbs.conf, 
you may set 
.I PBS_CONF_FILE in your environment.

.SH CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS

.IP PBS_AUTH_METHOD 
Authentication method to be used by PBS.  Only allowed value is
"munge" (case-insensitive).  

.IP PBS_BATCH_SERVICE_PORT  
Port on which server listens.  Default: 15001

.IP PBS_BATCH_SERVICE_PORT_DIS      
DIS port on which server listens.

.IP PBS_COMM_LOG_EVENTS     
Communication daemon log mask.  
.br
Default: 511

.IP PBS_COMM_ROUTERS        
Tells a 
.I pbs_comm 
the location of the other 
.I pbs_comms.

.IP PBS_COMM_THREADS        
Number of threads for communication daemon.

.IP PBS_CONF_REMOTE_VIEWER  
Specifies remote viewer client.  If not specified, PBS uses native
Remote Desktop client for remote viewer.  Set on submission host(s).
Supported on Windows only.

.IP PBS_CORE_LIMIT  
Limit on corefile size for PBS daemons.  Can be set to an integer
number of bytes or to the string "unlimited".

.IP PBS_DATA_SERVICE_PORT   
Used to specify non-default port for connecting to data service.  Default: 15007

.IP PBS_ENVIRONMENT 
Location of pbs_environment file.

.IP PBS_EXEC        
Location of PBS 
.I bin 
and 
.I sbin 
directories.

.IP PBS_HOME        
Location of PBS working directories.

.IP PBS_LEAF_NAME   
Tells endpoint what hostname to use for network.

.IP PBS_LEAF_ROUTERS        
Location of endpoint's 
.I pbs_comm 
daemon(s).

.IP PBS_LOCALLOG    
Enables logging to local PBS log files.

.IP PBS_MAIL_HOST_NAME      
Used in addressing mail regarding jobs and reservations that is sent
to users specified in a job or reservation's Mail_Users attribute.
Optional.  Must be a fully qualified domain name.  Cannot contain a
colon (":").  

.IP PBS_MANAGER_SERVICE_PORT        
Port on which MoM listens.  Default: 15003

.IP PBS_MOM_HOME    
Location of MoM working directories.

.IP PBS_MOM_SERVICE_PORT    
Port on which MoM listens. Default: 15002

.IP PBS_OUTPUT_HOST_NAME 
Host to which all job standard output and
standard error are delivered.  If specified in 
.I pbs.conf 
on a job
submission host, the value of PBS_OUTPUT_HOST_NAME is used in the host
portion of the job's 
.I Output_Path 
and 
.I Error_Path 
attributes.  If the
job submitter does not specify paths for standard output and standard
error, the current working directory for the 
.I qsub 
command is used, and
the value of PBS_OUTPUT_HOST_NAME is appended after an at sign ("@").
If the job submitter specifies only a file path for standard output
and standard error, the value of PBS_OUTPUT_HOST_NAME is appended
after an at sign ("@").  If the job submitter specifies paths for
standard output and standard error that include host names, the
specified paths are used.  Optional.  Must be a fully qualified domain
name.  Cannot contain a colon (":").  

.IP PBS_PRIMARY     
Hostname of primary server.  Used only for failover configuration.  
Overrides PBS_SERVER_HOST_NAME.

.IP PBS_CP 
Location of local copy command. Default is cp on Linux systems and xcopy on Windows.

.IP PBS_RCP
Location of rcp command if rcp is used.

.IP PBS_SCHEDULER_SERVICE_PORT      
Port on which default scheduler listens.  Default value: 15004

.IP PBS_SCP 
Location of scp command if scp is used; setting this parameter causes
PBS to first try scp rather than rcp for file transport.

.IP PBS_SCP_ARGS
Arguments for the scp command if scp is used; if not set, defaults will be used.

.IP PBS_SECONDARY   
Hostname of secondary server.  Used only for failover configuration.  
Overrides PBS_SERVER_HOST_NAME.

.IP PBS_SERVER 
Hostname of host running the server.  
If the short name of the server host resolves to the
correct IP address, you can use the short name for the value of the
PBS_SERVER entry in pbs.conf.  If only the FQDN of the server host
resolves to the correct IP address, you must use the FQDN for the
value of PBS_SERVER.  Overridden by PBS_SERVER_HOST_NAME and
PBS_PRIMARY.  Cannot be longer than 255 characters.  

.IP PBS_SERVER_HOST_NAME
The FQDN of the server host.  Used by clients to contact server.
Overridden by PBS_PRIMARY and PBS_SECONDARY failover parameters.
Overrides PBS_SERVER parameter.  Optional.  Must be a fully qualified
domain name.  Cannot contain a colon (":").  

.IP PBS_SMTP_SERVER_NAME    
Name of SMTP server PBS will use to send mail.  Should be a fully
qualified domain name.  Cannot contain a colon (":").  

.IP PBS_START_COMM  
Set to 1 if a communication daemon is to run on this host.

.IP PBS_START_MOM   
Set to 1 if a MoM is to run on this host.

.IP PBS_START_SCHED 
.B Deprecated. 
Set to 1 if the scheduler is to run on this host.  Overridden by 
scheduler's 
.I scheduling
attribute.

.IP PBS_START_SERVER        
Set to 1 if the server is to run on this host.

.IP PBS_SYSLOG      
Controls use of syslog facility.

.IP PBS_SYSLOGSEVR  
Filters syslog messages by severity.

.IP PBS_TMPDIR      
Root directory for temporary files for PBS components.


