.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2017 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_idled 8B "5 October 2012" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_idled 
\- PBS daemon to watch the X console and inform pbs_mom of idle time
.SH UNIX/LINUX SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_idled 
[-w wait_time] [-f idle_file] [-D display] 
.RS 10
[-r reconnect_delay]
.RE
.br
.B pbs_idled
--version
.SH WINDOWS SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_idled 
[start | stop] 
.br
.B pbs_idled
--version
.SH UNIX/LINUX DESCRIPTION
On UNIX/Linux, the 
.B pbs_idled 
program sits and watches an X windows
display and communicates the idle time of the display back to PBS.  If
the mouse is moved or a key is touched, PBS is informed that the node
is busy.
.br
This program should be run out of the system-wide Xsession file.  It
should be run in the background before the window manager is run.  If
this program is run outside of the Xsession, it will need to be able
to make a connection to the X display.  See the xhost or xauth man
pages for a description of X security.
.SH WINDOWS DESCRIPTION
On Windows, 
.B pbs_idled 
reads its polling interval from a file called
.I idle_poll_time 
which is created by MoM.  The process monitors
keyboard, mouse, and console activity, and updates a file called
.I idle_touch 
when it finds user activity.  The 
.I idle_touch 
file is created by MoM.

.SH UNIX/LINUX OPTIONS
.IP "-w <wait_time>" 10
Granularity between when the daemon checks for events or pointer movement.
.IP "-f <idle_file>" 10
Update file times on <idle_file>.  PBS will not monitor any 
other than the default.
.IP "-D <display>" 10
The display to connect to and monitor.
.IP "-r <reconnect_delay>" 10
The amount of time to try and reconnect to the X display if the previous 
attempt was unsuccessful.

.IP "--version" 10
The 
.B pbs_idled
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.
.SH WINDOWS OPTIONS
.IP "start" 10
Starts the 
.B pbs_idled 
process.
.IP "stop" 10
Stops the 
.B pbs_idled 
process.
.IP "--version" 10
The 
.B pbs_idled 
process returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide
and the following manual pages:
pbs_mom(8B), xhost(1), xauth(1)
