.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" ALTAIR ENGINEERING INC. Proprietary and Confidential. Contains Trade 
.\" Secret Information. Not for use or disclosure outside of Licensee's 
.\" organization. The software and information contained herein may only 
.\" be used internally and is provided on a non-exclusive, 
.\" non-transferable basis.  Licensee may not sublicense, sell, lend, 
.\" assign, rent, distribute, publicly display or publicly perform the 
.\" software or other information provided herein, nor is Licensee 
.\" permitted to decompile, reverse engineer, or disassemble the 
.\" software. Usage of the software and other information provided by 
.\" Altair (or its resellers) is only as explicitly stated in the 
.\" applicable end user license agreement between Altair and Licensee. In 
.\" the absence of such agreement, the Altair standard end user license 
.\" agreement terms shall govern. 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright notice does not imply publication. 
.\"
.TH pbs_migration_assistant.bat 8B "19 October 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_migration_assistant.bat
\- For Windows.  Tells PBS which server configuration settings to use

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_migration_assistant.bat 
/b
.br
.B pbs_migration_assistant.bat
/r
.SH DESCRIPTION
On Windows, you use C:\\Program Files(x86)\\PBS Pro\\exec\\bin\\pbs_migration_assistant.bat
to set server configuration variables appropriately.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "/b" 15
Tells PBS to use the old server configuration settings.

.IP "/r" 15
Tells PBS to use the new server configuration settings.

