.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_topologyinfo 8B "8 June 2018" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_topologyinfo 
\- report topological information used for licensing purposes


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_topologyinfo 
(-a | --all) [(-l | --license) | (-s | --sockets)]
.br
.B pbs_topologyinfo 
(-l | --license) <vnode name> [<vnode name> ...]
.br
.B pbs_topologyinfo 
(-s | --sockets) <vnode name> [<vnode name> ...]
.br
.B pbs_topologyinfo 
-h | --help

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pbs_topologyinfo
command reports topological information for one or more vnodes.  This
information is used for licensing purposes.  To use the command, you
must specify what kind of topological information you want.  The
command reports only the requested information.

This command must be run on the server host.

.SH Usage
.B pbs_topologyinfo -al
reports number of node licenses needed for all vnodes.

.B pbs_topologyinfo -l <vnode name>
reports number of node licenses needed for 
.I vnode name.

.B pbs_topologyinfo -as 
reports socket counts for all vnodes that have reported sockets.

.B pbs_topologyinfo -s <vnode name>
reports socket count for vnode 
.I vnode name.

.SH Prerequisites
Before you use this command, the server and MoMs must be configured 
so that they can contact each other, and must have been run.  

.SH Required Privilege

This command can be run only by root or Admin on Windows.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-a, --all" 15
Reports requested topological information for all vnodes.  When this
option is used alone, the command does not report any information.

.IP "-h, --help " 15
Prints usage and exits.

.IP "-l, --license [<vnode name(s)>]" 15
Reports number of node licenses required.  If you specify
.I vnode name(s),
the command reports node licenses needed for the specified vnode(s) only.

.IP "-s, --sockets [<vnode name(s)>]" 15
Reports derived socket counts.  If you specify
.I vnode name(s),
the command reports socket count information for the specified vnode(s) only.

.IP "(no options)" 15
Does not report any information.

.SH OPERANDS
.IP "vnode name [<vnode name> ...]" 15 
Name(s) of vnode(s) about which to report.

.SH Errors
If you specify an invalid vnode name, the command prints a message to standard error.


.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP "0" 15 
Success
.IP "1" 15
Any error following successful command line processing.

.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide

