.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_ds_password 8B "17 October 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_ds_password 
\- set or change data service user account or its password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_ds_password 
[-C <username>] [-r]

.SH DESCRIPTION
You can use this command to change the user account or account password 
for the data service.  

.B Passwords
.br
Blank passwords are not allowed.

If you type in a password, make sure it does not contain restricted
characters.  The 
.B pbs_ds_password
command generates passwords
containing the following characters:

0123456789abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ!@#$%^&*()_+

When creating a password manually, do not use \\ (backslash) or `
(backquote). This can prevent certain commands such as pbs_server,
pbs_ds_password, and printjob from functioning properly, as they rely
on connecting to the database.  The format is also described in "PBS
Password" in the Formats chapter of the PBS Professional Reference Guide.

.B Permissions
On Linux, root privilege is required to use this command. On Windows, 
Admin privilege is required.

.B Restrictions
Do not run this command if failover is configured. It is important 
not to inadvertently start two separate instances of the data service 
on two machines, thus potentially corrupting the database.
.br

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-C <username>" 15  
Changes user account for data service to specified account.  Specified
user account must already exist. 
.br

On Linux-based systems, the specified user account must not be root.
.br

On Windows, the specified user account must match the PBS service
account (which can be any user account.)
.br

This option cannot be used while the data service is running. 
.br

Can be used with the 
.I -r
option to automatically generate a password
for the new account.

.IP "-r" 15
Generates a random password. The data service is updated with the new
password. 

Can be used with the -C option.

.IP "(no options)" 15
Asks the user to enter a new password twice. Entries must
match. Updates data service with new password.


.RE
.RE
.RE
.RE
.LP

.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP "Zero" 15
Success
.IP "Non-zero" 15
Failure
