.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_hostn 8B "18 October 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_hostn 
- report hostname and network address(es)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_hostn 
[ -v ] <hostname>
.br
.B pbs_hostn 
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pbs_hostn
command takes a hostname, and reports the results of both 
gethostbyname(3) and gethostbyaddr(3) system calls. Both forward and
reverse lookup of hostname and network addresses need to succeed in order
for PBS to authenticate a host.
.LP
Running this command can assist in
troubleshooting problems related to incorrect or non-standard network
configuration, especially within clusters.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-v" 15
Turns on verbose mode.
.LP
.IP "--version" 15
The 
.B pbs_hostn
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.


.SH OPERANDS
.IP "hostname" 15
The
.B pbs_hostn
command accepts a 
.I hostname
operand either in short name form, or in fully qualified
domain name (FQDN) form.
.SH STANDARD ERROR
The
.B pbs_hostn
command writes a diagnostic message to standard error for
each error occurrence.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP "Zero" 15
Upon successful processing of all the operands presented to the
.B pbs_hostn
command
.LP
.IP "Greater than zero" 15
If the
.B pbs_hostn
command fails to process any operand.

.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide
and the following manual page:
pbs_server(8B)
