.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2020 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_mkdirs 8B "19 November 2019" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_mkdirs
- For Windows. Create, or fix the permissions of, the directories and files used by PBS


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_mkdirs
.br
.B pbs_mkdirs 
[ mom ]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
Runs on Windows only.  If the directories and files used by PBS exist, the 
.B pbs_mkdirs 
command fixes their permissions.  If the directories and/or files do not
exist, the 
.B pbs_mkdirs 
command creates them, with the correct
permissions.  The 
.B pbs_mkdirs 
command always examines the following directories and files:
.RS 5
pbs.conf
.br
PBS_EXEC
.br
PBS_HOME/spool
.br
PBS_HOME/undelivered
.br
PBS_HOME/pbs_environment
.RE
.B Required Privilege
.br
You must have Administrator privilege to run this command.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "mom" 5
The 
.B pbs_mkdirs 
command examines the following additional items:
.RS 10
PBS_HOME/mom_priv
.br
PBS_HOME/mom_logs
.RE


.IP "(no options)" 5
The 
.B pbs_mkdirs 
command examines all of the files and directories
specified for the 
.I mom
option.


.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide, 
pbs_probe(8B)


