.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_dataservice 8B "17 October 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_dataservice 
\- start, stop, or check the status of the PBS data service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_dataservice 
[start|stop|status]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pbs_dataservice
command starts, stops, or gets the status of the PBS data service.

.SH Permission
On Linux, root privilege is required to use this command. On Windows,
Admin privilege is required.

.SH Arguments
.IP "start" 15
Starts the PBS data service.

.IP "stop" 15  
Stops the PBS data service.

Can be used only when the PBS server is not running.

.IP "status" 15   
Displays the status of the PBS data service, as follows:

Data service running
.RS 20
"PBS Data Service running"
.RE

.IP " " 15 
Data service not running
.RS 20
"PBS Data Service not running"
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP "Zero" 15
Success
.IP "Non-zero" 15
Failure
