.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_mpirun 8B "23 October 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_mpirun

.B Deprecated.  
Run MPI programs under PBS with MPICH

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_mpirun 
[<mpirun options>]

.B pbs_mpirun 
--version
.SH DESCRIPTION

The PBS command 
.B pbs_mpirun 
replaces the standard 
.I mpirun 
command in a PBS
MPICH job using P4.  

On Windows, this command cannot be used to start job processes or
to track a job's resource usage.

.B Prerequisite
.br
The PATH on remote machines must contain 
.I PBS_EXEC/bin.

.SH USAGE
Usage is the same as for 
.I mpirun, 
except for the 
.I -machinefile 
option.  All other options are passed directly to 
.I mpirun.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "<mpirun options>" 8
The 
.I options 
to 
.B pbs_mpirun 
are the same as for 
.I mpirun, 
except for the
.I -machinefile 
option.  This is generated by 
.B pbs_mpirun.
The user should not attempt to specify 
.I -machinefile.

The value for 
.I -machinefile
is a temporary
file created from 
.I PBS_NODEFILE 
in the format:
       hostname-1[:number of processors]
       hostname-2[:number of processors]
       hostname-n[:number of processors]

where if the number of processors is not specified, it is 1.
An attempt  by the user to specify the 
.I -machinefile 
option
will result in a warning saying "Warning, -machinefile value
replaced by PBS".

The default value for the 
.I -np 
option is the number of entries in PBS_NODEFILE.

.IP "--version" 8
The 
.B pbs_mpirun
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.
.LP
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.B pbs_mpirun 
modifies 
.I P4_RSHCOMMAND 
and 
.I PBS_RSHCOMMAND.  
Users should not
edit these.  
.B pbs_mpirun 
copies the value of 
.I P4_RSHCOMMAND 
into 
.I PBS_RSHCOMMAND.

.SH SEE ALSO
The 
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide
.LP
mpirun(1)
