.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_interactive 8B "19 October 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_interactive 
\- For Windows. Register, unregister, or get the version of the PBS_INTERACTIVE service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_interactive 
[R | U]
.br
.B pbs_interactive
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pbs_interactive
command registers, unregisters, or gets the version of the PBS_INTERACTIVE service.
The service must be registered manually; the installer does not register it.

On Windows, the PBS_INTERACTIVE service itself monitors logging in and out by users,
starts a pbs_idled process for each user logging in, and stops the pbs_idled process
of each user logging out.

.SH Permission
Admin privilege is required to use this command.

.SH Arguments
.IP "R" 15
Registers the PBS_INTERACTIVE service.

.IP "U" 15  
Unregisters the PBS_INTERACTIVE service.

.IP "--version" 15   
The 
.B pbs_interactive
command returns its version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.


