.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_diag 8B "9 October 2012" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_diag 
\- diagnostic tool for PBS Professional
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_diag 
[-c] 
[-d daterange]
[-f] 
[-g corefile]
[-j jobidlist] 
[-n x] 
[-o outdir] 
[-r remote_command] 
[-u username] 

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pbs_diag
command is an interactive tool for collecting information used to
diagnose problems encountered when running PBS Professional.
You can also use 
.B pbs_diag 
to generate a current snapshot of the configuration 
of the server and scheduler in a PBS complex.  This tool does not
collect MoM configuration information.

This command extracts the following information:
.RS 5
qmgr settings for server, queues, and vnodes
.br
pbs_probe information about file permissions 
.br
pbs.conf master configuration information
.br
pbsnodes vnode configuration/state information
.br
qstat information about current state of the queues and server
.br
Information about existing reservations
.br
pbs_hostn name resolution information
.br
Operating system version information
.br
Server, scheduler, and MoM configuration files
.br
tracejob and logging information for jobs specified by the user
.br
Server, scheduler, and MoM logs for dates specified by the user
.br
Cpuset configuration information and current state if on a cpuset-aware system
.br
Vnode definition files
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-c" 10
Use this option to gather only cpuset information.  This is important
it is necessary to get information about a cpuset-aware system that is
not running as the PBS server/scheduler.
 
.IP "-d daterange" 10
Specifies a date range or a single integer representing the number of
days in the past to retrieve server and scheduler logs.  Date ranges
must be of the form MM/DD/YYYY-MM/DD/YYYY

.IP "-f" 10
Use this option for non-interactive mode.  The greeting will be
supressed, as will the command execution confirmation and prompts for
additional parameters.  If no other options are specified, only 
basic configuration information is collected.

Must use 
.I -u 
option with this option.

.IP "-g core_file"
Path to core file.
Obtains a stack trace from the specified core file produced by one of
the three PBS daemons.  Works only on Linux systems where gdb (the GNU
debugger) is installed.
 
If the -g option is specified, no other data collection will take
place.
 
.IP "-j jobidlist" 10
Collects information about specified job IDs.  Use this option on the
command line, to avoid being prompted during the running of the
script.  Format: comma-separated list of job IDs.
 
.IP "-o outdir" 10
This overrides $HOME as the default location for
the output .tar.gz file.
 
.LP

.IP "-n x"
.IP "-r remote_command"
.IP "-u username" 10
These options are used only during the pbs_dtj portion of the script
and map directly to the options in that script.  See the pbs_dtj
header for details.
 
The -u option must be specified for non-interactive use, i.e. when the 
.I -f
option is used..


