.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2016 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_probe 8B "19 October 2011" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_probe 
- report PBS diagnostic information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_probe 
[ -f | -v ] 
.br
.B pbs_probe
--version
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pbs_probe
command reports post-installation information that is useful for PBS
diagnostics. Aside from the direct information that is supplied on the
command line,
.B pbs_probe
uses as the source for basic information the file
/etc/pbs.conf and the values of any of the following environment variable
that may be set in the environment in which
.B pbs_probe
is run: PBS_CONF_FILE, PBS_HOME, PBS_EXEC, PBS_START_SERVER, PBS_START_MOM,
and PBS_START_SCHED.
.LP
In order to execute
.B pbs_probe,
the user must have PBS Operation or Manager privilege.
.LP
Used without options, the
.B pbs_probe
runs in "report" mode. In this mode
.B pbs_probe
reports on any errors in the PBS infrastructure files that it
detects. The problems are categorized, and a list of the problem messages
placed in each category are output. Those categories which are empty do not
show in the output.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-f " 10
Run in "fix" mode. In this mode pbs_probe will examine each of the relevant
infrastructure files and, where possible, fix any errors that it detects,
and print a message of what got changed. If it is unable to fix a problem,
it will simply print a message regarding what was detected. 
.IP "-v" 10
Run in "verbose" mode. If the verbose option is turned on, pbs_probe will
also output a complete list of the infrastructure files that it checked.
.LP
.IP "--version" 10
The 
.B pbs_probe
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH STANDARD ERROR
The
.B pbs_probe
command will write a diagnostic message to standard error for
each error occurrence.
.LP
.SH FILES
/etc/pbs.conf
.br
/etc/init.d/pbs
.LP
.SH EXIT STATUS
Exit code does not reflect results of probe; it reflects whether or not
the program ran.  Exit codes:
.RS 4
Zero when run correctly, whether or not 
.B pbs_probe 
finds any problems or errors.

Non-negative when run incorrectly.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide
and the following manual pages:
pbs_server(8B), pbs_sched(8B), pbs_mom(8B).
