.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_mpilam 8B "23 October 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_mpilam 
\- run MPI programs under PBS with LAM MPI

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_mpilam 
[<mpilam options>]

.B pbs_mpilam 
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
The PBS command 
.B pbs_mpilam 
replaces the standard 
.I mpirun
command in a PBS LAM MPI job.

If used to run a single program, PBS tracks resource usage 
and controls all user processes spawned by the program.
If used to run multiple programs as specified in an application file
(no 
.I <where> 
argument and no 
.I -np/-c 
option), PBS does not manage the spawned user processes of each program.

If the 
.I where 
argument is not specified,
.I pbs_mpilam
will try to run the user's program on all available CPUs
using the 
.I C
keyword.

.B Prerequisites
.br
The PATH on remote machines must contain 
.I PBS_EXEC/bin.

.SH USAGE
Usage is the same as for LAM 
.I mpirun.
All options are passed directly to 
.I mpirun.  

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "<mpilam options>" 8
The 
.B pbs_mpilam 
command uses the same options as 
.I mpirun.

.IP "--version" 8
The 
.B pbs_mpilam
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH SEE ALSO
The 
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide
.LP
mpirun(1)
