.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_migrate_users 8B "19 October 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_migrate_users 
\- transfer per-user or per-server passwords between 
PBS servers during a migration upgrade
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_migrate_users 
<old server> <new server>
.br
.B pbs_migrate_users 
--version
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pbs_migrate_users
command is used to transfer the per-user or per-server 
password of a PBS user from one server to another during a 
migration upgrade.
.LP
Users' passwords on the old server are not deleted.
.LP
Available on Windows and supported Linux x86 and x86_64 platforms only.


.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--version" 15
The 
.B pbs_migrate_users
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH OPERANDS
The format of 
.I old server
and 
.I new server
is 
.RS
<hostname>[:<port number>]
.RE


.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP " 0" 15
Success
.IP "-1" 15
Writing out passwords to files failed
.IP "-2" 15
Communication failure between
.I old server
and 
.I new server
.IP "-3" 15
.I single_signon_password_enable
not set in either 
.I old server
or
.I new server
.IP "-4" 15
User running 
.B pbs_migrate_users
not authorized to migrate users


.SH SEE ALSO
pbs_password(8B)
