.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_iff 8B "18 October 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_iff
\- tests authentication with the server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_iff 
[-t] <server host> <server port>

.B pbs_iff 
--version
.SH DESCRIPTION
Called from the pbs_connect() IFL API to authenticate a connection
with the PBS server.  Designed to be called internally by PBS commands
and components, to be used by our IFL layer to talk to the server.

If 
.B pbs_iff
cannot authenticate, it returns an error message.

.B Required Privilege
.br
Can be run by any user.

It's a setuid root binary so it runs as the user who requests a
connection to a server but it becomes root so that it can grab a
privileged port.

.SH OPTIONS TO pbs_iff
.IP "-t" 10
Test mode; means test whether 
.B pbs_iff 
can authenticate with the server
.IP "--version" 10
Reports version and exits; can only be used alone

.SH ARGUMENTS TO pbs_iff
.IP "daemon host" 10
Host where server is running
.IP "daemon port" 10
Port on which server is listening; default is 15001

.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP "Zero" 10
If 
.B pbs_iff 
is able to contact the server at the specified port
.IP "Non-zero" 10
If 
.B pbs_iff 
is unable to contact the server at the specified port
