.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" ALTAIR ENGINEERING INC. Proprietary and Confidential. Contains Trade 
.\" Secret Information. Not for use or disclosure outside of Licensee's 
.\" organization. The software and information contained herein may only 
.\" be used internally and is provided on a non-exclusive, 
.\" non-transferable basis.  Licensee may not sublicense, sell, lend, 
.\" assign, rent, distribute, publicly display or publicly perform the 
.\" software or other information provided herein, nor is Licensee 
.\" permitted to decompile, reverse engineer, or disassemble the 
.\" software. Usage of the software and other information provided by 
.\" Altair (or its resellers) is only as explicitly stated in the 
.\" applicable end user license agreement between Altair and Licensee. In 
.\" the absence of such agreement, the Altair standard end user license 
.\" agreement terms shall govern. 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright notice does not imply publication. 
.\"
.TH pbs_lamboot 8B "19 October 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_lamboot 
\- PBS front end to LAM's lamboot program

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_lamboot

.B pbs_lamboot
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
The PBS command 
.B pbs_lamboot 
replaces the standard 
.I lamboot
command in a PBS
LAM MPI job, for starting LAM software on each of the 
PBS execution hosts running Linux 2.4 or higher.

Usage is the same as for LAM's
.I lamboot.
All arguments except for
.I bhost 
are passed directly to 
.I lamboot.  
PBS will issue a warning saying that the
.I bhost 
argument is ignored by PBS since input is taken automatically 
from 
.B $PBS_NODEFILE.
The 
.B pbs_lamboot 
program will not redundantly consult the
.B $PBS_NODEFILE
if it has been instructed to boot the nodes using the 
.I tm
module.  This instruction happens when an argument is
passed to
.B pbs_lamboot
containing "-ssi boot tm" or when the 
.B LAM_MPI_SSI_boot 
environment variable exists with the value
.I tm.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--version" 8
The 
.B pbs_lamboot
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH OPERANDS
The operands for
.B pbs_lamboot 
are the same as for 
.I lamboot.


.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES


.SH PATH
The PATH on remote machines must contain 
.I PBS_EXEC/bin.


.SH SEE ALSO
The 
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide
.LP
lamboot(1), tm(3)
