.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbsnodes 8B "11 January 2018" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME

.B pbsnodes 
\- query PBS host or vnode status, mark hosts free or offline, change 
the comment for a host, or output vnode information
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B pbsnodes 
[-o | -r] [-s <server>] [-C <comment>] <hostname> [<hostname> ...]

.B pbsnodes 
[-l] [-s <server>] 

.B pbsnodes 
-v <vnode> [<vnode> ...] [-s <server>]

.B pbsnodes 
-a[v] [-S[j][L]] [-F json|dsv [-D <delim>]] [-s <server>]

.B pbsnodes 
[-H] [-S[j][L]] [-F json|dsv [-D <delim>]] <hostname> [<hostname> ...]

.B pbsnodes 
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B pbsnodes
command is used to query the status of hosts or vnodes, to mark hosts FREE or
OFFLINE, to edit a host's 
.I comment 
attribute, or to output vnode information.  The 
.B pbsnodes 
command obtains host information by sending a request to the PBS server.
.LP
To print the status of the specified host or hosts, run 
.B pbsnodes
with no options (except the 
.I -s
option) and with a list of hosts.
.LP
To print the command usage, run 
.B pbsnodes 
with no options and without a list of hosts.

To remove a node from the scheduling pool, mark it OFFLINE.  If it is marked
DOWN, when the server next queries the MoM, and can connect, the node will be
marked FREE.

To offline a single vnode in a multi-vnoded system, use: 
.RS 5
qmgr: set node <vnode name> state=offline
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
The order in which hosts or vnodes are listed in the output of the
.B pbsnodes 
command is undefined.  Do not rely on output being ordered.
If you print attributes, 
.B pbsnodes
prints out only those attributes which are not at default values.

.SH PERMISSIONS
PBS Manager or Operator privilege is required to execute 
.B pbsnodes 
with the
.B \-o 
or
.B \-r
options.
Operator or Manager privilege is required to view custom resources
which have been created to be invisible to users, and to see some output
such as PBS version.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "(no options)" 8
If neither options nor a host list is given, the 
.B pbsnodes
command prints usage syntax.
.IP "-a" 8
Lists all hosts and all their attributes (available and used.)

When listing a host with multiple vnodes:

.RS 
.IP "" 5
The output for the 
.I jobs 
attribute lists all the jobs on all the vnodes
on that host.
Jobs that run on more than one vnode will appear once for each vnode they
run on.

For consumable resources, the output for each resource is the sum of that
resource across all vnodes on that host.

For all other resources, e.g. string and Boolean, if the value of that
resource is the same on all vnodes on that host, the value is returned.
Otherwise the output is the literal string "<various>".
.LP
.RE

.IP "-C <comment>" 8
Sets the 
.I comment
attribute for the specified host(s) to the value of <comment>.
Comments containing spaces must be quoted.  The comment string is limited
to 80 characters.  Usage:
.br
.B \ \ \  pbsnodes -C <comment> <hostname> [<hostname> ...]

To set the comment for a vnode:
.br
.B \ \ \ qmgr -c "s n <vnode name> comment=<comment>"

.IP "-F dsv [-D <delim>]"
Prints output in delimiter-separated value format.  Optional delimiter
specification.  Default delimiter is vertical bar ("|").

.IP "-F json"
Prints output in JSON format.

.IP "-H <host> [<host> ...]"
Prints all non-default-valued attributes for specified hosts and all
vnodes on specified hosts.

.IP "-j"
Displays the following job-related headers for specified vnodes:
.nf
Header\ \ \ \ \ Width\ \ Description
------------------------------------
vnode       15    Vnode name
state       15    Vnode state
njobs        6    Number of jobs on vnode
run          5    Number of running jobs at vnode
susp         6    Number of suspended jobs at vnode
mem f/t     12    Vnode memory free/total
ncpus f/t    7    Number of CPUs at vnode free/total
nmics f/t    7    Number of MICs at vnode free/total
ngpus f/t    7    Number of GPUs at vnode free/total
jobs        any   List of job IDs on vnode
.fi

.br
Note that 
.I nmics 
and 
.I ngpus
are custom resources that must be created by the administrator if you 
want them displayed here.

Each subjob is treated as a unique job.

.IP "-L"
Displays output with no restrictions on column width.

.IP "-l" 8
Lists all hosts marked as DOWN or OFFLINE. Each such host's state and
comment attribute (if set) is listed.  If a host also has state 
STATE-UNKNOWN, it is listed. For hosts with multiple vnodes, 
only hosts where all vnodes are marked as DOWN or OFFLINE are listed.

.IP "-o <hostname> [<hostname> ...]" 8
Marks listed hosts as OFFLINE even if currently in use.  This is
different from being marked DOWN.  A host that is marked OFFLINE 
continues to execute the jobs already on it, but is removed from
the scheduling pool (no more jobs are scheduled on it.)  

Offlines ALL vnodes on a Cray.

For non-Cray hosts with multiple vnodes, pbsnodes operates on a host and all of
its vnodes, where the hostname is resources_available.host, which is
the name of the natural vnode.  

To offline all vnodes on a non-Cray multi-vnoded machine:
.br
.B \ \ \ pbsnodes -o <name of natural vnode>

For Cray hosts with multiple vnodes, note that login nodes share a name
with compute nodes, so if you use this option on a Cray, you will 
offline ALL of your compute nodes.

To offline a single vnode on a Cray or another 
multi-vnoded system, use: 
.br
.B \ \ \ qmgr -c "set node <vnode name> state=offline"

Requires PBS Manager or Operator privilege.
.RE

.IP "-r <hostname> [<hostname> ...]" 8
Clears OFFLINE from listed hosts.

.IP "-S"
Displays the following vnode information:
.nf
Header\ \ \ \ \ Width\ \ Description
------------------------------------
name        15    Vnode name
state       15    Vnode state
OS           8    Value of OS custom resource, if any
hardware     8    Value of hardware custom resource, if any
host        15    Hostname
queue       10    Value of vnode's queue attribute
ncpus        7    Number of CPUs at vnode
nmics        7    Number of MICs at vnode
mem         12    Vnode memory
ngpus        7    Number of GPUs at vnode
comment     any   Vnode comment
.fi

Note that 
.I nmics, ngpus, 
and 
.I OS
are custom resources that must be created by the administrator
if you want their values displayed here.

.IP "-s <server>" 8
Specifies the PBS server to which to connect.

.IP "-v <vnode> [<vnode> ...]" 8
Lists all non-default-valued attributes for each specified vnode.
.br
With no arguments, prints one entry for each vnode in the PBS complex.
.br
With one or more vnodes specified, prints on entry for each specified
vnode.

.IP "--version" 8
The 
.B pbsnodes
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.


.SH OPERANDS
.IP "<server>" 8
Specifies the server to which to connect. 
Default: default server.

.IP "<hostname> [<hostname> ...]" 8
Specifies the host(s) to be queried or operated on.

.IP "<vnode> [<vnode> ...]" 8
Specifies the vnode(s) to be queried or operated on.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP "Zero"
Success

.IP "Greater than zero"
Incorrect operands are given
.br
.B pbsnodes
cannot connect to the server 
.br
There is an error querying the server for the vnodes

.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
.br
pbs_server(8B) and qmgr(8B)

