.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbsrun_unwrap 8B "16 October 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbsrun_unwrap
\- unwraps mpirun, reversing 
.B pbsrun_wrap

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbsrun_unwrap
pbsrun.<mpirun version/flavor>

.B pbsrun_unwrap
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B pbsrun_unwrap
script is used to reverse the actions of the 
.B pbsrun_wrap
script.

Use 
.B pbsrun_wrap
to wrap mpirun.

Using 
.B pbsrun_unwrap
with Intel MPI is 
.B deprecated
as of 13.0.

.SH USAGE

Syntax: 
.RS 5
.B pbsrun_unwrap 
pbsrun.<mpirun version/flavor>
.RE

For example, running the following:

     pbsrun_unwrap pbsrun.ch_gm

causes the following actions:

.IP " " 5
Checks for a link in $PBS_EXEC/lib/MPI/pbsrun.ch_gm.link;
If one exists, get the pathname it points to:
.br
/opt/mpich-gm/bin/mpirun.ch_gm.actual

.IP " " 5
rm $PBS_EXEC/lib/MPI/pbsrun.mpirun.ch_gm.link

.IP " " 5
rm /opt/mpich-gm/bin/mpirun.ch_gm

.IP " " 5
rm $PBS_EXEC/bin/pbsrun.ch_gm

.RS 5
.IP "mv" 4
/opt/mpich-gm/bin/mpirun.ch_gm.actual
.br
/opt/mpich-gm/bin/mpirun.ch_gm
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--version" 5
The 
.B pbsrun_unwrap
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH SEE ALSO
The 
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide
.LP
pbs_attach(8B), 
pbsrun(8B), 
pbsrun_wrap(8B)
