.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbsrun_wrap 8B "16 October 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbsrun_wrap
\- general-purpose script for wrapping mpirun in pbsrun

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbsrun_wrap
[-s] <path to actual mpirun> pbsrun.<mpirun version/flavor>

.B pbsrun_wrap
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B pbsrun_wrap
script is used to wrap any of several versions of mpirun in 
.B pbsrun. 
The 
.B pbsrun_wrap 
script creates a symbolic link with the same
path and name as the mpirun being wrapped.  This calls 
.B pbsrun, 
which uses 
.B pbs_attach
to give MoM control of jobs.  The result is transparent to the
user; 
when mpirun is called from inside a
PBS job, 
PBS can monitor and control the job, but when mpirun is called
from outside of a PBS job, it behaves as it would normally.
See the 
.B pbs_attach(8B) 
and 
.B pbsrun(8B)
man pages.

Use 
.B pbsrun_unwrap
to reverse the process.

Using 
.B pbsrun_wrap
with Intel MPI is 
.B deprecated 
as of 13.0.

.SH USAGE

Syntax: 
.RS 5
.B pbsrun_wrap 
[-s] <path to actual mpirun> pbsrun.<mpirun version/flavor>
.RE

Any mpirun version/flavor that can be wrapped has
an initialization script ending in ".init", 
found in $PBS_EXEC/lib/MPI:
.br
.RS 5
$PBS_EXEC/lib/MPI/pbsrun.<mpirun version/flavor>.init
.RE

The  
.B pbsrun_wrap 
script
instantiates the 
.B pbsrun 
wrapper script as
.B pbsrun.<mpirun version/flavor> 
in the same directory where 
.B pbsrun 
is located, and sets up the link to actual mpirun call via the symbolic link
.RS 5
$PBS_EXEC/lib/MPI/pbsrun.<mpirun version/flavor>.link
.RE

For example, running:
.RS 5
.B pbsrun_wrap 
/opt/mpich-gm/bin/mpirun.ch_gm pbsrun.ch_gm
.RE
causes the following actions:
.RS 4
Save original mpirun.ch_gm script:
.RS 4
.IP "mv" 4
/opt/mpich-gm/bin/mpirun.ch_gm 
.br 
/opt/mpich/gm/bin/mpirun.ch_gm.actual
.LP
.RE
Instantiate pbsrun wrapper script as pbsrun.ch_gm:
.RS 4
.IP "cp" 4
$PBS_EXEC/bin/pbsrun $PBS_EXEC/bin/pbsrun.ch_gm
.LP
.RE
Link "mpirun.ch_gm" to actually call "pbsrun.ch_gm":
.RS 4
.IP "ln -s" 6
$PBS_EXEC/bin/pbsrun.ch_gm /opt/mpich-gm/bin/mpirun.ch_gm
.LP
.RE
Create a link so that "pbsrun.ch_gm" calls "mpirun.ch_gm.actual":
.RS 4
.IP "ln -s" 6
/opt/mpich-gm/bin/mpirun.ch_gm.actual
$PBS_EXEC/lib/MPI/pbsrun.ch_gm.link
.RE
.RE
.RE



.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-s" 5
Sets the "strict_pbs" options in the various 
initialization scripts (e.g. pbsrun.bgl.init, pbsrun.ch_gm.init, etc...)
to 1 from the default 0. This means that the mpirun being wrapped by 
pbsrun will only be executed if inside a PBS environment. Otherwise, the user 
gets the error:
.RS
.IP 
Not running under PBS
exiting since strict_pbs is enabled; execute only in PBS
.LP

.RE

.IP "--version" 5
The 
.B pbsrun_wrap
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.



.SH REQUIREMENTS
The mpirun being wrapped
must be installed and working on all thev nodes in the PBS complex.


.SH SEE ALSO
The 
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide
.LP
pbs_attach(8B), 
pbsrun(8B), 
pbsrun_unwrap(8B)
