.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH printjob 8B "28 November 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B printjob 
\- print job information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B printjob 
[ -a | -s ] <job ID>
.br
.B printjob 
[ -a ] <file path> [<file path>...]
.br
.B printjob
--version
.SH DESCRIPTION
Prints job information.  This command is mainly useful for troubleshooting, 
as during normal operation, the 
.B qstat(8B) 
command is the preferred method for displaying job-specific data and attributes.
The server and MoM do not have to be running to execute this command.

.SH Usage
For a running job, you can run this command at any host using a 
job ID, and you can run this command at any execution host where
the job is running using a .JB file path.

For a finished job, if job history is enabled, you can run this command at
the server using the job ID.

When querying the server, you must use the job ID, and the data service
must be running.

Results will vary depending on whether you use the job ID or
a .JB file, and on which execution host you query with a .JB file.

.SH PERMISSIONS
In order to execute
.B printjob,
you must have root or Windows Administrator privilege.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "(no options)" 15
Prints all job data including job attributes.
.IP "-a" 15
Suppresses the printing of job attributes.  Cannot be used with 
.I -s 
option.
.IP "-s" 15
Prints out the job script only.  Can be used at server or primary execution host.
Cannot be used with 
.I -a
option.  Must be used with a job ID.

.IP "--version" 15
The 
.B printjob
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH OPERANDS
.IP "file path" 15
The 
.B printjob
command accepts one or more
.I file path
operands at the execution host.  Files are found in PBS_HOME/mom_priv/jobs/ 
on the primary execution host.  File path must include full path to file.  Cannot be
used with 
.I -s 
option.

.IP "job ID" 15
The 
.B printjob 
command accepts a job ID at the server host. 
.br
Format: <sequence number>[.<server name>][@<server name>]
.br
Data service must be running.
.SH STANDARD ERROR
The
.B printjob
command writes a diagnostic message to standard error for
each error occurrence.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP Zero 15
Upon successful processing of all the operands presented to the
.B printjob
command
.LP
.IP "Greater than zero" 15
If the 
.B printjob 
command fails to process any operand

.SH SEE ALSO
The
.I PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
.br
pbs_server(8B), qstat(8B)
