.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2017 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH qterm 8B "6 October 2011" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B qterm 
\- terminate a PBS Server


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qterm 
[\^-t\ type\^] [-f | -i | -F] [-m] [-s] [server_list]
.br
.B qterm
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B qterm 
command terminates a PBS batch server (
.B pbs_server
).
When a server receives a 
terminate command,
The server will go into 
.I Terminating 
or 
.I Terminating-Delayed
state.
.br
Once the server is terminating, no new jobs are accepted by the
server, and no jobs are allowed to begin execution.  The impact on
running jobs depends on the way the server is shut down.  
.br
The qterm
command does not exit until the server has completed its shutdown
procedure.  
.br
If the complex is configured for failover, and the primary
server is shut down, the normal behavior for the secondary server is
to become active.  The 
.B qterm 
command provides options to manage the
behavior of the secondary server; it can be shut down, forced to
remain idle, or shut down in place of the primary server.  
.br
In order to
run the 
.B qterm 
command, the user must have PBS Operator or Manager
privilege.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "(no options)" 10
The 
.B qterm 
command defaults to 
.B qterm -t quick.

.IP "-f" 10
If the complex is configured for failover, both the primary and
secondary servers are shut down.  Without the 
.I -f 
option, the primary
server is shut down and the secondary server becomes active.  
.br
The 
.I -f
option cannot be used with the 
.I -i 
or 
.I -F 
options.

.IP "-F" 10
If the complex is configured for failover, only the secondary server
is shut down, and the primary server remains active.
.br
The 
.I -F 
option cannot be used with the 
.I -f 
or 
.I -i 
options.

.IP "-i" 10
If the complex is configured for failover, the secondary server
remains idle when the primary server is shut down.

The 
.I -i 
option cannot be used with the 
.I -f 
or 
.I -F 
options.

.IP "-m" 10
All MOMs (
.B pbs_mom
) are shut down.  This option does not cause jobs or subjobs to be killed.
Jobs are left running subject to other options to the 
.B qterm
command.  

.IP "-s" 10
The scheduler (
.B pbs_sched
) is shut down.

.IP "-t <type>" 10
The 
.I type 
specifies how the server is shut down.  The 
.I types
are the following:
.RS
.IP immediate
All running jobs and subjobs immediately stop execution.
Any running jobs that can be checkpointed are checkpointed,
terminated, and requeued.  Jobs that cannot be checkpointed are
terminated and requeued if they are rerunnable, otherwise they are
killed. All subjobs are killed and requeued.
.br
If any job cannot be terminated, for example the server
cannot contact the MOM of a running job, the server continues to
execute and the job is listed as running.  The server can be
terminated by a second 
.B qterm -t immediate 
command.
.br
While terminating, the server is in the 
.I Terminating
state.
  
.IP

.IP delay
The server waits to terminate until all non-checkpointable,
non-rerunnable jobs are finished executing.  Any running jobs that can
be checkpointed are checkpointed, terminated, and requeued.  Jobs that
cannot be checkpointed are terminated and requeued if they are
rerunnable, otherwise they are allowed to continue to run.
All subjobs are killed and requeued.
.br
While terminating, the server is in the 
.I Terminating-Delayed
state.

.IP quick
Running jobs are left running.  Running subjobs 
are requeued.
.br
This is the default behavior when no options are given to the 
.B qterm 
command.
.br
While terminating, the server is in the 
.I Terminating
state.
.RE
.LP
.IP "--version" 10
The 
.B qterm
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH OPERANDS
The server list operand specifies which servers are to shut down.  It
is a space-separated list of server names.  If no servers are
specified, then the default server is terminated.

.SH STANDARD ERROR
The
.B qterm
command writes a diagnostic message to standard error for
each error occurrence.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero upon successful processing of all the operands presented to the
.B qterm
command.
.LP
Greater than zero if the 
.B qterm 
command fails to process any operand.

.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide, 
pbs_server(8B), pbs_mom(8B), pbs_sched(8B)


