.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH tracejob 8B "11 January 2018" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B tracejob 
\- extract and print log messages for a PBS job
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tracejob 
[-a] [-c <count>] [-f <filter>] [-l] [-m] [-n <days>] 
.RS 9
[-p <path>] [-s] [-v] [-w <cols>] [-z] <job ID>
.RE
.B tracejob
--version
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B tracejob
command extracts log messages for a given 
.I job ID 
and  prints them in chronological order.
.LP
The 
.B tracejob
command extracts information from the server, scheduler, accounting, and MoM logs.
Server logs contain information such as when a job was queued or modified.
Scheduler logs contain clues as to why a job is not running.  Accounting
logs contain accounting records for when a job was queued, started, ended,
or deleted.  MoM logs contain information about what happened to a job
while it was running.  
.LP
To get MoM log messages for a job, 
.B tracejob 
must be run on the machine on which the job ran.  If the job ran on multiple
hosts, you must run 
.B tracejob
on each of those hosts.
.LP
Some log messages appear many times.  In order to make the output of 
.B tracejob
more readable, messages that appear over a certain number of times (see option 
.I -c 
below) are restricted to only the most recent message.

.B Using tracejob on Job Arrays
.br
If 
.B tracejob 
is run on a job array, the information returned is about
the job array itself, and not its subjobs.  Job arrays do not have associated
MoM log messages.  If 
.B tracejob 
is run on a subjob, the same types of log 
messages are available as for a job.  Certain log messages that occur for 
a regular job will not occur for a subjob.

.B Required Privilege
.br 
All users have access to server, scheduler, and MoM information. Only 
Administrator or root can access accounting information.
.LP

.SH Options to tracejob
.IP "-a" 8
Do not report accounting information.
.IP "-c <count>" 8
Set excessive message limit to 
.I count.
If a message is logged 
at least 
.I count
times, only the most recent message is printed.
The default for 
.I count
is 15.

.IP "-f <filter>" 8
Do not include log events of type 
.I filter.
The 
.B -f 
option can be used 
more than once on the command line.  
The following table shows each filter with its hex value and category:

.nf
Filter      Hex Value  Message Category                   
---------------------------------------------------
error       0001       Internal errors
system      0002       System errors 
admin       0004       Administrative events
job         0008       Job-related events
job_usage   0010       Job accounting info
security    0020       Security violations
sched       0040       Scheduler events
debug       0080       Common debug messages
debug2      0100       Uncommon debug messages
resv        0200       Reservation debug messages
debug3      0400       Less common than debug2
debug4      0800       Less common than debug3
.fi
.RE

.IP "-l" 8
Do not report scheduler information.            

.IP "-m" 8
Do not report MoM information.

.IP "-n <days>" 8
Report information from up to 
.I days 
days in the past.  Default number of days: 
.I 1 
= today

.IP "-p <path>" 8
Use 
.I path 
as path to PBS_HOME on machine being queried.

.IP "-s"   8
Do not report server information.

.IP "-w <cols>" 8
Width of current terminal.  If 
.I cols 
is not specified, 
.B tracejob 
queries OS to get terminal width.  If OS doesn't 
return anything, defaults to 
.I 80.

.IP "-v" 8
Verbose.  Report more of 
.B tracejob's 
errors than default.

.IP "-z" 8
Suppresses printing of duplicate messages.

.RE
.LP
.IP "--version" 8
The 
.B tracejob
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH Operands
The tracejob command accepts one 
.I job ID 
operand. 
.br
For a job, this has the form: 
.br
.I <sequence number>[.<server name>][@<server name>]
.br
For a job array, the form is:
.br
.I <sequence number>[][.<server name>][@<server name>]
.br
For a subjob, the form is: 
.br
.I <sequence number>[<index>][.<server name>][@<server name>]
.br
Note that some shells require that you enclose a job array identifier in double quotes.


.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP Zero 8
upon successful processing of all options
.IP "Greater than zero" 8
If
.B tracejob 
is unable to process any options

.SH SEE ALSO
The 
.I PBS  Professional Administrator's Guide
.LP
pbs_server(8B), pbs_sched(8B), pbs_mom(8B)
