.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH win_postinstall.py 8B "17 June 2018" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B win_postinstall.py 
\- For Windows.  Configures PBS services


.SH SYNOPSIS
<PBS_EXEC>\\etc\\python win_postinstall.py 
-u <PBS service account> 
.br
        -p <PBS service account password> [-t server]
.br
<PBS_EXEC>\\etc\\python win_postinstall.py 
-u <PBS service account> 
.br
        -p <PBS service account password> 
.br
        -t <non-server installation type>   
.br
        -s <server name>

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B win_postinstall.py
command configures PBS services.  It performs post-installation steps
such as validating the PBS service account username and password,
installing the Visual C++ redistributable binary, creating PBS_HOME
and the default queue, initializing the database, and registering and
starting the PBS_SERVER, PBS_SCHED, PBS_MOM, PBS_COMM and PBS_RSHD PBS
services.

When you use this command during installation of PBS, the command
automatically un-registers any old PBS services.

Available on Windows only.

.SH Required Privilege

You must have Administrator privilege to run this command.

.SH Options to win_postinstall.py
.IP "p, --passwd <PBS service account password>" 8
Specifies password for PBS service account.  
.IP "-s, --server <server name>" 8
Specifies the hostname on which the PBS server will run; required when
the installation type is one of "execution", "client", or "comm".
.IP "-t, --type <installation type>" 8
Specifies type of installation.  Type can be one of "server",
"execution", "client", or "comm".  Default is server installation.
.IP "-u, --user <PBS service account>" 8
Specifies PBS service account.  When you specify the PBS service
account, whether or not you are on a domain machine, include only the
username, not the domain.  For example, if the full username on a
domain machine is 
.I <domain>
\\
.I <username>
, pass only 
.I <username>
as an argument.

