.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2020 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_geterrmsg 3B "15 November 2019" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_geterrmsg 
\- get error message for most recent PBS batch operation
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.B char *pbs_geterrmsg(int connect)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Returns most recent error message text associated with a batch server request.

If a preceding batch interface library call over the connection
specified by 
.I connect 
returned an error from the server, the server may
have created an associated text message.  If there is a text message,
this function returns a pointer to the text message.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP connect 8
Return value of 
.B pbs_connect().  
Specifies connection handle over which to request error message from server.

.SH RETURN VALUE
If the server returned an error and created an error text string in
reply to a previous batch request, this function returns a pointer to
the text string.  The text string is null-terminated.

If the server does not have an error text string, this function
returns a null pointer.  The text string is a global variable; you do
not need to free it.

.SH SEE ALSO
pbs_connect(3B)
