.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2020 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_manager 3B "15 November 2019" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_manager 
\- modify a PBS batch object
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.nf
.B int pbs_manager(int connect, int command, int object_type, 
.B \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ char *object_name, struct attropl *attrib_list, 
.B \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ char *extend)
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

Issues a batch request to perform administrative functions at a server.

Generates a 
.I Manager
(9) batch request and sends it to the server over the connection specified by 
.I connect.  

You can use this to create, delete, and set attributes of objects such as queues.

.SH REQUIRED PRIVILEGE
This function requires Manager or Operator privilege depending on the
operation, and root privilege when used with hooks.

When not used with hooks:
.RS 3
Functions MGR_CMD_CREATE and MGR_CMD_DELETE require PBS Manager privilege.
.br
Functions MGR_CMD_SET and MGR_CMD_UNSET require PBS Manager or Operator privilege.
.RE

When used with hooks:
.RS 3
All commands require root privilege on the server host.  
.br
Functions MGR_CMD_IMPORT, MGR_CMD_EXPORT, and MGR_OBJ_HOOK are used
only with hooks, and therefore require root privilege on the server
host.
.br
Hook commands are run at the server host.
.RE

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP connect 8
Return value of 
.B pbs_connect().  
Specifies connection over which to send batch request to server.

.IP command 8
Operation to be performed.  Valid values are specified in pbs_ifl.h. 

.IP object_type 8
Specifies type of object on which command is to operate.  Valid values
are specified in pbs_ifl.h.

.IP object_name 8
Name of object on which to operate.

.IP attrib_list 8
Pointer to a list of attributes to be operated on.  Each attribute is
described in an 
.I attropl 
structure, defined in pbs_ifl .h as:
.nf
struct attropl {
        struct attropl *next;
        char           *name;
        char           *resource;
        char           *value;
        enum batch_op  op;
};
.fi

.IP extend 8
Character string for extensions to command.  Not currently used.

.LP

.B Members of attropl Structure
.br
.IP next 8
Points to next attribute in list.  A null pointer terminates the list.

.IP name 8
Points to a string containing the name of the attribute.  

.IP resource 8
Points to a string containing the name of a resource.  Used only when
the specified attribute contains resource information.
Otherwise, 
.I resource 
should be a null pointer.  

If the resource is already present in the object's attribute, the
value is altered as specified.  Otherwise the resource is added.

.IP value 8
Points to a string containing the new value of the attribute or
resource.  For parameterized limit attributes, this string contains
all parameters for the attribute.

.IP op 8
Defines the manner in which the new value is assigned to the attribute
or resource.  The operators used for this function are 
.I SET, UNSET, INCR, DECR.

.SH USAGE FOR HOOKS
When importing a hook or hook configuration file:
.RS 3
Set 
.I command 
to 
.I MGR_CMD_IMPORT

Set 
.I object_type 
to 
.I SITE_HOOK 
(or 
.I PBS_HOOK 
if you are importing a
configuration file for a built-in hook; you cannot import a built-in hook)

Set 
.I object_name 
to the name of the hook

In one attropl structure:
.RS 6
Set 
.I name 
to "content-type"

Set 
.I value 
to "application/x-python" for a hook, or "application/x-config" for a configuration file
.RE

In another attropl structure:
.RS 6
Set 
.I name 
to "content-encoding"

Set 
.I value 
to "default" or "base64"
.RE

In a third attropl structure:
.RS 6
Set  
.I name 
to "input-file"

Set 
.I value 
to the name of the input file
.RE

Set 
.I op 
to 
.I SET
.RE

When exporting a hook or hook configuration file:
.RS 3
Set 
.I command 
to 
.I MGR_CMD_EXPORT

Set 
.I object_type 
to 
.I SITE_HOOK 
(or 
.I PBS_HOOK 
if you are exporting a configuration file for a built-in hook; you cannot export 
a built-in hook) 

Set 
.I object_name 
to the name of the hook

In one attropl structure:
.RS 6
Set 
.I name to "content-type"

Set 
.I value 
to "application/x-python" for a hook, or "application/x-config" for a configuration file
.RE
In another attropl structure:
.RS 6
Set  
.I name 
to "content-encoding"

Set 
.I value 
to "default" or "base64"
.RE
In another attropl structure:
.RS 6
Set  
.I name 
to "output-file"

Set 
.I value 
to "default" or "base64"
.RE
In a third attropl structure:
.RS 6
Set 
.I name 
to "output-file"

Set 
.I value 
to the name of the output file
.RE

Set 
.I op 
to 
.I SET
.RE
See the 
.I PBS Professional Hooks Guide.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The routine returns 0 (zero) on success.

If an error occurred, the routine returns a non-zero exit value, and
the error number is available in the global integer 
.I pbs_errno.

.SH SEE ALSO
qmgr(1B), pbs_connect(3B)


