.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" ALTAIR ENGINEERING INC. Proprietary and Confidential. Contains Trade 
.\" Secret Information. Not for use or disclosure outside of Licensee's 
.\" organization. The software and information contained herein may only 
.\" be used internally and is provided on a non-exclusive, 
.\" non-transferable basis.  Licensee may not sublicense, sell, lend, 
.\" assign, rent, distribute, publicly display or publicly perform the 
.\" software or other information provided herein, nor is Licensee 
.\" permitted to decompile, reverse engineer, or disassemble the 
.\" software. Usage of the software and other information provided by 
.\" Altair (or its resellers) is only as explicitly stated in the 
.\" applicable end user license agreement between Altair and Licensee. In 
.\" the absence of such agreement, the Altair standard end user license 
.\" agreement terms shall govern. 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright notice does not imply publication. 
.\"
.TH pbs_holdjob 3B "3 March 2015" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
pbs_holdjob - place a hold on a PBS batch job
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp

.B int pbs_holdjob(\^int\ connect, char\ *job_id, char\ *hold_type, char\ *extend\^)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Issue a batch request to place a hold upon a job.
.LP
A 
.I "Hold Job"
batch request is generated and sent to the server over the connection
specified by
.I connect 
which is the return value of \f3pbs_connect\f1().
.LP
The argument, 
.I job_id ,
identifies which job is to be held, it is specified in the form:
.RS 4
.I "sequence_number.server"
.RE
.LP
The parameter, 
.I hold_type ,
contains the type of hold to be applied.  The possible values are
defined in pbs_ifl.h.
.LP
If
.I hold_type
is either a null pointer or points to a null string, USER_HOLD
will be applied.
.LP
The parameter,
.I extend ,
is reserved for implementation-defined extensions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
qhold(1B), pbs_connect(3B), pbs_alterjob(3B), and pbs_rlsjob(3B)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When the batch request generated by 
.B pbs_holdjob ()
function has been completed successfully by a batch server, the routine will
return 0 (zero).
Otherwise, a non zero error is returned.  The error number is also set
in pbs_errno.
