.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" ALTAIR ENGINEERING INC. Proprietary and Confidential. Contains Trade 
.\" Secret Information. Not for use or disclosure outside of Licensee's 
.\" organization. The software and information contained herein may only 
.\" be used internally and is provided on a non-exclusive, 
.\" non-transferable basis.  Licensee may not sublicense, sell, lend, 
.\" assign, rent, distribute, publicly display or publicly perform the 
.\" software or other information provided herein, nor is Licensee 
.\" permitted to decompile, reverse engineer, or disassemble the 
.\" software. Usage of the software and other information provided by 
.\" Altair (or its resellers) is only as explicitly stated in the 
.\" applicable end user license agreement between Altair and Licensee. In 
.\" the absence of such agreement, the Altair standard end user license 
.\" agreement terms shall govern. 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright notice does not imply publication. 
.\"
.TH pbs_statfree 3B "8 October 2012" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_statfree 
\- free a PBS status object
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.B void pbs_statfree(\^struct batch_status *psj\^)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Frees the specified PBS status object returned by pbs_statque, pbs_statserver, 
pbs_stathook, etc.
.LP

The argument is a pointer to a
.I batch_status
structure.
The batch_status structure is defined in pbs_ifl.h as
.sp
.Ty
.nf
    struct batch_status {
        struct batch_status *next;
        char                *name;
        struct attrl        *attribs;
        char                *text;
    }
.fi
.LP

No error information is returned.


