.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2020 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_alterjob 3B "15 November 2019" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_alterjob 
\- alter a PBS batch job
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.nf
.B int pbs_alterjob(int connect, char *jobID, struct attropl *change_list, 
.B \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ char *extend)
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
Issues a batch request to alter a batch job.

This command generates a 
.I Modify Job 
(11) batch request and sends it to the server over the connection specified by 
.I connect.

Job state may affect which attributes can be altered.  See the qalter(1B) man page.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP connect 8
Return value of 
.B pbs_connect().  
Specifies connection over which to send batch request to server.

.IP jobID 8
ID of job or job array to be altered.  
.br
Format for a job:
.br
.I <sequence number>.<server name>
.br
Format for an array job:
.br
.I <sequence number>[].<server name>

.IP change_list 8
Pointer to a list of attributes to change.  Each attribute is described in an 
.I attropl 
structure, defined in pbs_ifl.h as:
.nf
struct attropl {
        struct attropl *next;
        char           *name;
        char           *resource;
        char           *value;
        enum batch_op  op;
};
.fi

.IP extend 8
Character string for extensions to command.  Not currently used.
.LP
.B Members of attropl Structure
.br
.IP next 8
Points to next attribute in list.  A null pointer terminates the list.

.IP name 8
Points to a string containing the name of the attribute.  

.IP resource 8
Points to a string containing the name of a resource.  Used only when
the specified attribute contains resource information.  Otherwise,
.I resource 
should be a pointer to a null string.

If the resource is already present in the job's 
.I Resource_List 
attribute, the value is altered as specified.  Otherwise the resource is added.

.IP value
Points to a string containing the value of the attribute or resource.  

.IP op 8
Defines the operation to perform on the attribute or resource.  For
this command, operators are 
.I SET, UNSET, INCR, DECR.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The routine returns 0 (zero) on success.
.br
If an error occurred, the routine returns a non-zero exit value, and
the error number is available in the global integer 
.I pbs_errno.

.SH SEE ALSO
qalter(1B), qhold(1B), qrls(1B), qsub(1B), pbs_connect(3B), pbs_holdjob(3B),
pbs_rlsjob(3B)

