.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2020 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_statque 3B "15 November 2019" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_statque 
\- get status of PBS queue(s)
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.nf
.B struct batch_status *
.B pbs_statque(int connect, char *target, struct attrl *output_attribs, 
.B \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ char *extend)
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
Issues a batch request to get the status of PBS queues.

Generates a 
.I Status Queue 
(20) batch request and sends it to the server over the connection specified by 
.I connect.

Returns specified attributes or all attributes of specified queue or all queues.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP connect 8
Return value of 
.B pbs_connect().  
Specifies connection handle over which to send batch request to server.

.IP target 8
Name of queue whose attributes are to be reported.  If this argument
is null, returns attributes of all queues known to the server.

.IP output_attribs 8
Pointer to a list of attributes to return.  If this argument is a null
pointer or points to a null string, returns all attributes.  Each
attribute is described in an 
.I attrl 
structure, defined in pbs_ifl.h as:
.nf
struct attrl {
        char         *name;
        char         *resource;
        char         *value;
        struct attrl *next;
};
.fi

.IP extend 8
Character string for extensions to command.  Not currently used.
.LP
.B Members of attrl Structure
.IP name 8
Points to a string containing the name of the attribute.  

.IP resource 8
Points to a string containing the name of a resource.  Used only when
the specified attribute contains resource information.  Otherwise,
.I resource 
should be a null pointer.

.IP value 8
Points to a string containing the value of the attribute or resource.  

.IP next 8
Points to next attribute in list.  A null pointer terminates the list.

.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a pointer to a list of 
.I batch_status 
structures describing the queue(s).  

If an error occurred, the routine returns a null pointer, and the
error number is available in the global integer 
.I pbs_errno.

.B The batch_status Structure
.br
The 
.I batch_status 
structure is defined in pbs_ifl.h as
.nf
struct batch_status {
        struct batch_status *next;
        char                *name;
        struct attrl        *attribs;
        char                *text;
}
.fi


.SH CLEANUP
You must free the list of 
.I batch_status 
structures when no longer needed, by calling 
.B pbs_statfree().

.SH SEE ALSO
qstat(1B), pbs_connect(3B), pbs_statfree(3B)
