.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2020 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_disconnect 3B "15 November 2019" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_disconnect 
\- disconnect from a PBS batch server
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.B int pbs_disconnect(int connect)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Closes the virtual stream connection to a PBS batch server.
Connection was previously returned from a call to
.B pbs_connect().

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP connect 8
Connection to be closed.  Return value of 
.B pbs_connect().
Specifies connection used earlier to send batch requests to server.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The routine returns 0 (zero) after successfully closing the connection.

If an error occurred, the routine returns -1, and the error number is 
available in the global inteter 
.I pbs_errno.

.SH SEE ALSO
pbs_connect(3B)
