.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_locjob 3B "3 March 2015" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
pbs_locjob - locate current location of a PBS batch job
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.B char *pbs_locjob\^(\^int connect, char\ *job_id, char\ *extend\^)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Issue a batch request to locate a batch job.
If the server currently manages the batch job, or knows which server does
currently manage the job, it will reply with the location of the job.
.LP
A 
.I "Locate Job"
batch request is generated and sent to the server over the connection
specified by
.I connect 
which is the return value of \f3pbs_connect\f1().
.LP
The argument,
.I job_id ,
identifies which job is to be located, it is specified in the form:
.RS 4
.I "sequence_number.server"
.RE
.LP
The argument,
.I extend ,
is reserved for implementation-defined extensions.  It is not currently 
used by this function.
.LP
The return value is a pointer to a character sting which contains the
current location if known.
The syntax of the location string is:
.RS 4
.I "server_name" 
.RE
If the location of the job is not known, the return value is the NULL pointer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
qsub(1B) and pbs_connect(3B)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When the batch request generated by the \f3pbs_locjob\f1()
function has been completed successfully
by a batch server, the routine will return a non null pointer to the
destination.
Otherwise, a null pointer is returned.  The error number is set in pbs_errno.
\" turn off any extra indent left by the Sh macro
