.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" ALTAIR ENGINEERING INC. Proprietary and Confidential. Contains Trade 
.\" Secret Information. Not for use or disclosure outside of Licensee's 
.\" organization. The software and information contained herein may only 
.\" be used internally and is provided on a non-exclusive, 
.\" non-transferable basis.  Licensee may not sublicense, sell, lend, 
.\" assign, rent, distribute, publicly display or publicly perform the 
.\" software or other information provided herein, nor is Licensee 
.\" permitted to decompile, reverse engineer, or disassemble the 
.\" software. Usage of the software and other information provided by 
.\" Altair (or its resellers) is only as explicitly stated in the 
.\" applicable end user license agreement between Altair and Licensee. In 
.\" the absence of such agreement, the Altair standard end user license 
.\" agreement terms shall govern. 
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright notice does not imply publication. 
.\"
.TH pbs_stagein 3B "3 March 2015" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
pbs_stagein - request that files for a PBS batch job be staged in.
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.B int pbs_stagein(\^int\ connect, char\ *job_id, char\ *location, char\ *extend)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Issue a batch request to start the stage in of files specified in the stagein attribute of a batch job.
.LP
A
.I "stage in"
batch request is generated and sent to the server over the connection
specified by
.I connect 
which is the return value of \f3pbs_connect\f1().
.LP
This request directs the server to begin the stage in of files specified in the
job's stage in attribute.
This request requires that the issuing user have operator or
administrator privilege.
.LP
The argument,
.I job_id ,
identifies which job for which file staging is to begin.  It is specified in
the form:
.RS 4
.I "sequence_number.server"
.RE
.LP
The argument,
.I location ,
if not the null pointer or null string, specifies the location where the 
job will  be run and hence to where the files will be staged.
The location is the name of a host in the cluster managed by the server.
If the job is then directed to run at different location, the run request will
be rejected.
.LP
The argument,
.I extend ,
is reserved for implementation-defined extensions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
qrun(8B), qsub(1B), and pbs_connect(3B)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When the batch request generated by \f3pbs_stagein\f1()
function has been completed successfully by a batch server, the routine will
return 0 (zero).
Otherwise, a non zero error is returned.  The error number is also set
in pbs_errno.
