.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2020 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_modify_resv 3B "15 November 2019" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_modify_resv 
\- modify a PBS reservation
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.nf
.B char *pbs_modify_resv(int connect, char *reservationID, 
.B \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ struct attropl *attrib_list, char *extend)
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
Issues a batch request to modify a reservation.

Generates a 
.I Modify Reservation 
(91) batch request and sends it to the server over the connection specified by 
.I connect.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP connect 8
Return value of 
.B pbs_connect().  
Specifies connection over which to send batch request to server.

.IP reservationID 8
Reservation to be modified.  
.br
Format for advance reservation:
.br
.I R<sequence number>.<server name>
.br
Format for standing reservation:
.br
.I S<sequence number>.<server name>
.br

.IP attrib_list 8
Pointer to a list of attributes to modify.  Each attribute is
described in an 
.I attropl 
structure, defined in pbs_ifl.h as:
.nf
struct attropl {
        struct attropl *next;
        char           *name;
        char           *resource;
        char           *value;
        enum batch_op  op;
};
.fi

For any attribute that is not specified or that is a null pointer, PBS
takes the default action for that attribute.  The default action is to
assign the default value or to not pass the attribute with the
reservation; the action depends on the attribute.

.IP extend 8
Character string for extensions to command.  Not currently used.
.LP
.B Members of attropl Structure
.br
.IP next 8
Points to next attribute in list.  A null pointer terminates the list.

.IP name 8
Points to a string containing the name of the attribute.  

.IP resource 8
Points to a string containing the name of a resource.  Used only when
the specified attribute contains resource information.  Otherwise,
.I resource 
should be a null pointer.

If the resource is already present in the reservation's
.I Resource_List 
attribute, the value is altered as specified.  Otherwise the resource is added.

.IP value 8
Points to a string containing the value of the attribute or resource.  

.IP op 8
Operator.  The only allowed operator for this function is 
.I SET.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, returns a character string containing the reservation ID assigned by the server.  

On failure, returns a null pointer, and the error number is available
in the global integer 
.I pbs_errno.

.SH CLEANUP
The space for the reservation ID string is allocated by 
.B pbs_modify_resv().
Release the reservation ID via a call to 
.B free() 
when no longer needed.

.SH SEE ALSO
pbs_rsub(1B), pbs_connect(3B)


