.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2020 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_rescreserve 3B "13 Sept 2011" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
pbs_rescreserve, pbs_rescrelease - reserve/free batch resources
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.B int pbs_rescreserve\^(\^int\ connect, char\ **resourcelist, 
.B int arraysize, resource_t *resource_id\^)
.sp
.B int pbs_rescrelease\^(\^int connect, resource_t resource_id\^)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.HP 2
.B pbs_rescreserve
.br
Issue a request to the batch server to reserve specified resources.
.I connect
is the connection returned by \f3pbs_connect\fP().
.I resourcelist 
is an array of one or more strings specifying the resources to be queried.
.I arraysize
is the is the number of strings in resourcelist.
.I resource_id
is a pointer to a resource handle.
The pointer cannot be null.
If the present value of the resource handle is 
.B RESOURCE_T_NULL ,
this request is for a new reservation and if successful, a resource handle
will be returned in resource_id.
.IP
If the value of resource_id as supplied by the caller is not 
.B RESOURCE_T_NULL ,
this is a existing (partial) reservation.   Resources currently reserved 
for this handle will be released and the full reservation will be attempted
again.
If the caller wishes to release the resources allocated to a partial
reservation, the caller should pass the resource handle to 
\f2pbs_rescrelease\fP().
.IP
At the present time the only resources which may be specified are "nodes". 
It should be specified as:
.RS 4
.I nodes=specification
.RE
.IP
where specification is what a user specifies in the -l option argument list
for nodes, see 
.I qsub (1B).
.HP 2
.B pbs_rescrelease
.br
The \f2pbs_rescrelease\fP()
call releases or frees resources reserved with the resource handle of
.I resource_id
returned from a prior \f2pbs_rescreserve\fP() call.
.I connect
is the connection returned by \f3pbs_connect\fP().
.LP
Both functions require that the issuing user have operator or administrator
privilege.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
qsub(1B), pbs_connect(3B), pbs_disconnect(3B) and
pbs_resources(7B)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
pbs_rescreserve() and pbs_rescrelease() return zero on success.
Otherwise, a non zero error is returned.  The error number is also set
in pbs_errno.
.IP PBSE_RMPART
is a special case indicating that some but not all of the requested resources
could be reserved; a partial reservation was made.  The reservation request
should either be rerequested with the returned handle or the partial 
resources released.
.IP PBSE_RMBADPARAM
a parameter is incorrect, such as a null for the pointer to the resource_id.
.IP PBSE_RMNOPARAM
a parameter is missing, such as a null resource list. 
.LP
