.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2020 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"

.TH pbs_deljob 3B "15 November 2019" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_deljob 
\- delete a PBS batch job
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.B int pbs_deljob(int connect, char *jobID, char *extend)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Issues a batch request to delete a batch job.  

This function generates a 
.I Delete Job 
(6) batch request and sends it to the server over the connection specified by 
.I connect.

If the batch job is running, the MoM sends the SIGTERM signal followed
by SIGKILL.

If the batch job is deleted by a user other than the job owner, PBS
sends mail to the job owner.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP connect 8
Return value of 
.B pbs_connect().  
Specifies connection over which to send batch request to server.

.IP jobID 8
ID of job, job array, subjob, or range of subjobs to be deleted.  
.br
Format for a job:
.br
.I <sequence number>.<server name>
.br
Format for an array job:
.br
.I <sequence number>[].<server name>
.br
Format for a subjob:
.br
.I <sequence number>[<index>][.<server name>]
.br
Format for a range of subjobs:
.br
.I <sequence number>[<first>-<last>][.<server name>]

.IP extend 8
Character string for extensions to command.  If the string is not
null, it is appended to the message mailed to the job owner.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The routine returns 0 (zero) on success.

On error, the routine returns a non-zero exit value, and the error
number is available in the global integer 
.I pbs_errno.

.SH SEE ALSO
qdel(1B), pbs_connect(3B)
