.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2020 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_relnodesjob 3B "15 November 2019" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_relnodesjob 
\- release some or all of the non-primary-execution-host vnodes assigned to a PBS job
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.nf
.B int pbs_relnodesjob (int connect, char *jobID, char *vnode_list, 
.B \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ char *extend)
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

Issues a batch request to release some or all of the vnodes of a batch job.

Generates a 
.I RelnodesJob 
(90) batch request and sends it to the server over the connection specified by 
.I connect.

You cannot release vnodes on the primary execution host.

You can use this on jobs and subjobs, but not on job arrays or ranges of subjobs.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP connect 8
Return value of 
.B pbs_connect().  
Specifies connection handle over which to send batch request to server.

.IP jobID 8
ID of job or subjob whose vnodes are to be released.  
.br
Format for a job:
.br
.I <sequence number>.<server name>
.br
Format for a subjob:
.br
.I <sequence number>[<index>].<server name>

.IP vnode_list 8
List of vnode names separated by plus signs ("+").

If 
.I vnode_list 
is a null pointer, this specifies that all the vnodes assigned to the
job that are not on the primary execution host are to be released.

.IP extend 8
Character string for extensions to command.  Not currently used.

.SH RETURN VALLUE
The routine returns 0 (zero) on success.

If an error occurred, the routine returns a non-zero exit value, and
the error number is available in the global integer 
.I pbs_errno.

