.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_movejob 3B "3 March 2015" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
pbs_movejob - move a PBS batch job to a new destination
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.B int pbs_movejob(\^int\ connect, char\ *job_id, char\ *destination, char\ *extend\^)

.SH DESCRIPTION
Issue a batch request to move a job to a new destination.
The job is removed from the present queue and instantiated in a new
queue.
.LP
A
.I "Move Job"
batch request is generated and sent to the server over the connection
specified by
.I connect 
which is the return value of \f3pbs_connect\f1().
.LP
The 
.I job_id
parameter identifies which job is to be moved; it is specified in the form:
.RS 4
.I "sequence_number.server"
.RE
.LP
The
.I destination
parameter specifies the new destination for the job.  It is specified as:
.RS 4
.I [queue][@server] .
.RE
If
.I destination
is a null pointer or a null string,
the destination will be the default queue at the current server.  If
.I destination
specifies a queue but not a server, the destination will be the named queue
at the current server.  If
.I destination
specifies a server but not a queue, the destination will be
the default queue at the named server.  If
.I destination
specifies both a queue and a server, the destination is that queue at that 
server.
.LP
A job in the
.B Running ,
.B Transiting ,
or
.B Exiting
state cannot be moved.
.LP
The parameter,
.I extend ,
is reserved for implementation-defined extensions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
qmove(1B), qsub(1B), and pbs_connect(3B)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When the batch request generated by \f3pbs_movejob\f1()
function has been completed successfully by a batch server, the routine will
return 0 (zero).
Otherwise, a non zero error is returned.  The error number is also set
in pbs_errno.
