.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2020 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_selectjob 3B "15 November 2019" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_selectjob 
\- select PBS batch jobs according to specified criteria
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <pbs_error.h>
.br
#include <pbs_ifl.h>
.sp
.nf
.B char **pbs_selectjob(int connect, struct attropl *criteria_list, 
.B \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ char *extend)
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B pbs_selectjob() 
issues a batch request to select jobs that meet specified criteria,
and returns an array of job IDs that meet the specified criteria.

This command generates a 
.I Select Jobs 
(16) batch request and sends it to the server over the connection handle specified by 
.I connect.

By default, 
.B pbs_selectjob() 
returns all batch jobs for which the user
is authorized to query status.  You filter the jobs by specifying
values for job attributes and resources.  You send a linked list of
attributes with associated values and operators.  Job attributes are
listed pbs_job_attributes(7B).

Returns a list of jobs that meet all specified criteria.  

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP connect 8
Return value of 
.B pbs_connect().  
Specifies connection handle over which to send batch request to server.

.IP criteria_list 8
Pointer to a list of attributes to use as selection criteria.  Each
attribute is described in an 
.I attropl 
structure, defined in pbs_ifl.h as:
.nf
struct attropl {
        struct attropl *next;
        char           *name;
        char           *resource;
        char           *value;
        enum batch_op  op;
};
.fi

If 
.I criteria_list 
itself is null, you are not using attributes or resources as selection criteria.

.IP extend 8
Character string where you can specify limits or extensions of your search.
.LP

.B Members of attropl Structure
.IP next 8
Points to next attribute in list.  A null pointer terminates the list.

.IP name 8
Points to a string containing the name of the attribute.  

.IP resource 8
Points to a string containing the name of a resource.  Used only when
the specified attribute contains resource information.  Otherwise,
.I resource 
should be a null pointer.

.IP value 8
Points to a string containing the value of the attribute or resource.  

.IP op 8
Defines the operator in the logical expression:
.br
.I <existing value> <operator> <specified limit>
.br
Jobs for which the logical expression evaluates to True are selected.

For this command, 
.I op 
can be
.I EQ, NE, GE, GT, LE, LT.

.SH QUERYING STATES
You can select jobs in more than one state using a single request, by
listing all states you want returned.  For example, to get jobs in
.I Held 
and 
.I Waiting 
states:
.RS 3
Fill in 
.I criteria_list->name 
with "job_state"
.br
Fill in 
.I criteria_list->value 
with "HW" for 
.I Held 
and 
.I Waiting
.RE

.SH EXTENDING YOUR QUERY
You can use the following characters in the extend parameter:
.IP "T, t" 8
Extends query to include subjobs.  Job arrays are not included.
.IP x 8
Extends query to include finished and moved jobs.
.LP

.B Querying Finished and Moved Jobs
.br
To get information on finished or moved jobs, as well as current jobs,
add an 'x' character to the 
.I extend 
parameter (set one character to be the 'x' character).  For example:
.nf 
   pbs_selectjob ( ..., ..., <extend characters>) ...
.fi
To get information on finished jobs only:
.RS 3
Add the "x" character to the 
.I extend 
parameter
.br
Fill in 
.I criteria_list->name 
with "ATTR_state"
.br
Fill in 
.I criteria_list->value 
with "FM" for Finished and Moved
.RE
Subjobs are not considered finished until the parent array job is finished.

.B Querying Job Arrays and Subjobs
.br
To query only job arrays (not jobs or subjobs):
.RS 3
Fill in 
.I criteria_list->name 
with "array"
.br
Fill in 
.I criteria_list->value 
with "True"
.RE
To query only job arrays and subjobs (not jobs):
.RS 3
Fill in 
.I criteria_list->name 
with "array"
.br
Fill in 
.I criteria_list->value 
with "True"
.br
Add the "T" or "t" character to the 
.I extend 
parameter
.RE
To query only jobs and subjobs (not job arrays), add the "T" or "t" character to the 
.I extend 
parameter.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The return value is a pointer to a null-terminated array of character
pointers.  Each character pointer in the array points to a character
string which is a job ID in the form:
.br
.I <sequence number>.<server>@<server>

If no jobs met the criteria, the first pointer in the array is null.

If an error occurred, the routine returns a null pointer, and the
error number is available in the global integer 
.I pbs_errno.

.SH CLEANUP REQUIRED
The returned array of character pointers is malloc()'ed by
.B pbs_selectjob().  
When the array is no longer needed, you must free it via a call to 
.B free().

.SH SEE ALSO
qselect(1B), pbs_connect(3B)

