.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH RM 3 "29 August 2011" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
openrm, closerm, downrm, configrm, addreq, allreq, getreq, flushreq, activereq, fullresp \- resource monitor API
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <netinet/in.h>
.br
.B #include <rm.h>

.LP
.B
int openrm (host, port)
.br
.RS 6
char *host;
.br
unsigned int port;
.RE
.LP
.B int closerm (stream) 
.br
.RS 6
int stream;
.RE
.LP
.B
int downrm (stream)   
.br
.RS 6
int stream;
.RE
.LP
.B
int configrm (stream, file)
.br
.RS 6
int stream;
.br
char *file;
.RE
.LP
.B
int addreq (stream, line)
.br
.RS 6
int stream; 
.br
char *line;
.RE
.LP
.B
int allreq (line) 
.br
.RS 6
char *line; 
.RE
.LP
.B
char *getreq(stream)  
.br
.RS 6
int stream;
.RE
.LP
.B
int flushreq() 
.LP
.B
int activereq()
.LP
.B
void fullresp(flag)  
.br
.RS 6
int flag; 
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The resource monitor library contains functions to facilitate
communication with the PBS Professional resource monitor. It is set up
to make it easy to connect to several resource monitors and
handle the network communication efficiently.
.LP
In all these routines, the variable
.B pbs_errno
will be set when an error is indicated.
The lower levels of network protocol are handled by the
"Data Is Strings" 
.I DIS
library and the "Reliable Packet Protocol"
.I RPP
library.

.LP
.B configrm() 
causes the resource monitor to read the file named. 
.B Deprecated.

.LP
.B addreq()
begins a new message to the resource monitor if necessary.
Then adds a line to the body of an outstanding command to the resource
monitor.

.LP
.B allreq()
begins, for each stream, a new message to the resource monitor if necessary.
Then adds a line to the body of an outstanding command to the resource
monitor.

.LP
.B getreq()
finishes and sends any outstanding message to the resource monitor.
If
.B fullresp()
has been called to turn off "full response" mode, the routine
searches down the line to find the equal sign just before the
response value.
The returned string (if it is not NULL) has been allocated by
.I malloc
and thus
.I free
must be called when it is no longer needed to prevent memory leaks.

.LP
.B flushreq()
finishes and sends any outstanding messages to all resource monitors.
For each active resource monitor structure, it checks if any
outstanding data is waiting to be sent. If there is, it is sent and
the internal structure is marked to show "waiting for response".

.LP
.B fullresp()
turns on, if flag is true, "full response" mode where
.B getreq()
returns a pointer to the beginning of a line of response.
This is the default.  If flag is false,
the line returned by
.B getreq()
is just the answer following the equal sign.

.LP
.B activereq()
Returns the stream number of the next stream with something
to read or a negative number (the return from
.I rpp_poll )
if there is no stream to read.

In order to use any of the above with Windows, initialize the network
library and link with 
.B winsock2.  
To do this, call 
.B winsock_init() 
before calling the function and link against the 
.B ws2_32.lib 
library.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rpp (3B),
.BR tcp (4P),
.BR udp (4P)
