.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH nqs2pbs 1B "1 Oct 2009" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B nqs2pbs 
- convert NQS job scripts to PBS format

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nqs2pbs 
<NQS script> [<PBS script>]
.br
.B nqs2pbs
--version
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility converts an existing NQS job script to work with PBS and NQS.
The existing script is copied and PBS directives, using
.I #PBS,
are inserted prior to each NQS directive (
.I #QSUB 
or
.I #@$
), in the original script.
.LP
Certain NQS date specifications and options are not supported by PBS.
A warning message will be displayed indicating the problem and the line of
the script on which it occurred.
.LP
If any unrecognizable NQS directives are encountered, an error message
is displayed. The new PBS script will be deleted if any errors occur.

.B Specifying Time or Date
.br
PBS will interpret a time specification without a date in the following way:
.IP - 3
If the time specified has not yet been reached, the job will become eligible
to run at that time today.
.IP -
If the specified time has already passed when the job is submitted, the job
will become eligible to run at that time tomorrow.
.LP
This command does not support time zone identifiers.  All times are taken as local
time.

Converting NQS date specifications to the PBS form may result in a warning
message and an incompletely converted date.  PBS does not support date
specifications of "today", "tomorrow", or the name of the days of the week
such as "Monday".  If any of these are encountered in a script, the PBS
specification will contain only the time portion of the NQS specification,
i.e. #PBS -a hhmm[.ss].   It is suggested that you specify the execution
time on the qsub command line rather than in the script.
.LP

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--version" 10
The 
.B nqs2pbs
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option must be used alone.

.SH OPERANDS
.IP  "NQS script"
Specifies the file name of the NQS script to convert. This file is not
changed.
.IP "PBS script"
If specified, this is the name of the new PBS script. If not specified,
the new file name is
.I nqs_script.new .
.LP

.SH SEE ALSO
qsub(1B)
