.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_rstat 1B "13 Sept 2011" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_rstat 
\- show status of PBS advance or standing reservations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_rstat 
[-F][-B][-S] [reservation_id...]
.br
.B pbs_rstat 
--version
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pbs_rstat
command is used to show the status of all reservations on the PBS
Server.  Denied reservations are not
displayed.  

This command has three different output formats: brief
.I (B),
short
.I (S),
and full
.I (F).
This command can be used with any level of PBS privilege.

See the 
.B pbs_resv_attributes(7B) 
man page for information about reservation attributes.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-B" 10
Brief.  Displays each reservation identifier only.

.IP "-S" 10
Short.  Displays a table showing the name, queue, owner, state, 
start time, duration, and end time of each reservation.

.IP "-F" 10
Full.  Displays all reservation attributes that are not set to 
the default value.  Users without manager or operator privilege
cannot print custom resources which were created to be invisible to users.

.IP "--version" 10
The 
.B pbs_rstat
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH OUTPUT

Reservation States:
.RS
.IP UN
Reservation not confirmed.
.IP CO
Reservation is confirmed.
.IP RN
Reservation is running.
.IP DJ
Jobs remaining after reservation has ended are being deleted.
.RE

Duration is shown in seconds.

.SH OPERANDS
The 
.B pbs_rstat 
command accepts one or more
.I reservation_identifier
operands.  
.br
.B Reservations at the default server
.br
For an advance reservation, the 
.I reservation_identifier 
has the form:
.RS 4
.I "[R]sequence_number[.server_name]"
.RE

For a standing reservation, the 
.I reservation_identifier 
has the form:
.RS 4
.I "[S]sequence_number[.server_name]"
.RE

.B Reservations at a server other 
.B than the default server:
.br
Specify the remote server's name using 
.I @remote_server.  
.br
For an advance reservation:
.RS 4
.I "[R]sequence_number[.server_name][@remote_server]"
.RE
For a standing reservation:
.RS 4
.I "[S]sequence_number[.server_name][@remote_server]"
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional User's Guide,
the
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
.br
pbs_rsub(1B), pbs_rdel(1B), pbs_resv_attributes(7B)

