.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2017 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_resources 7B "26 February 2015" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_resources 
\- computational resources for PBS jobs


.SH DESCRIPTION
PBS provides computational resources for jobs, limits on using 
resources, and control over how
jobs are placed on the vnodes from which resources may be allocated for
a job.

PBS provides built-in resources and custom resources for some systems, 
and allows the administrator to define
custom resources.  The administrator can specify which resources are
available on a given vnode, as well as at the queue or server level
(e.g. floating licenses.)  Resources can be "stretched" across vnodes.
See the 
.B qmgr(8B)
man page and The 
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide.


Resources defined at the queue or server level apply to an entire job.
If they are defined at the host level, they apply only to the part of
the job running on that host.

Jobs request resources, which are allocated to the job, along with any
defaults specified by the administrator.

For information on defining resources, see The 
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide.

.B Summary
.br
Resources are allocated to jobs both by explicitly requesting them and
by applying defaults.  Resources are explicitly requested (in order of
precedence) through a
.B qalter
operation, the 
.B qsub
command line, and PBS job script directives.  Default resources can be
specified by the administrator (in order of precedence) for
.B qsub
arguments, 
queues, the server, and vnodes.  

Jobs are assigned limits on the amount of resources they can use.
These limits apply to how much the job can use on each vnode and 
to how much the whole job can use.  Limits are derived from both requested
resources and applied default resources.

Jobs are placed on vnodes according to their explicit placement request, 
or according to default placement rules.
The explicit placement request can be specified (in order of precedence) using 
.B qalter, qsub, 
and PBS job script directives.
Default placement rules can be specified for queues and the server, 
and rules for default placement take effect if no other placement
specifications exist.  

.B Old Syntax
.br
A job submitted with the old node or resource specification syntax
will be converted to the new select and place syntax.  If the job is
submitted with
.I -lnodes= 
or 
.I -lncpus=
it will be converted to 
.I -l select=
and 
.I -l place=.  See 
.B BACKWARD COMPATIBILITY.  
Jobs cannot use both new and old syntax for resource requests.

.B Allocation
.br
Resources are allocated to jobs both by explicitly requesting them
and by applying specified defaults.  
Jobs explicitly request resources either at the host level in 
.I chunks
defined in a 
.I selection statement,
or in job-wide resource requests.  

Format: 
.RS 4
.nf
qsub ... -l <resource name>=<value>   <--- job-wide request
         -l select=<chunks>           <--- selection statement
.fi
.RE
The only resources that can be
requested in chunks are host-level resources, such as mem and ncpus.
The only resources that can be in a job-wide request are server-level
or queue-level resources, such as walltime.  An explicit resource
request can appear here, with this order of precedence:
.IP " " 5
.B qalter
.br
.B qsub
.br
PBS job script directives
.LP
.IP " " 5
.RS
.B Requesting Resources in Chunks
.br
A 
.I chunk 
declares the value of each resource in a set of resources
which are to be allocated as a unit to a job.  All of a chunk 
must be taken from a single vnode.  
A 
.I chunk
request is a host-level request, and it must be for a host-level resource.
A
.I chunk
is the smallest 
set of resources that will be allocated to a job.  It is one or 
more 
.I resource_name=value 
statements separated by a colon, e.g.:
.IP " " 5
ncpus=2:mem=10GB:host=Host1
.br
ncpus=1:mem=20GB:arch=linux
.LP
.I Chunks 
are described in a 
.I selection statement, 
which specifies how many of each kind of chunk.
A selection statement is of the form:
.IP " " 5
-l select=[N:]chunk[+[N:]chunk ...]
.LP
If 
.I N 
is not specified, it is taken to be 1.

No spaces are allowed between chunks.

Example of multiple chunks in a 
.I selection statement:
.IP " " 5
-l select=2:ncpus=1:mem=10GB+3:ncpus=2:mem=8GB
.LP
.B Requesting Job-wide Resources
.br

A job-wide resource request is for resource(s) at the server or queue
level.  This resource must be a server-level or queue-level resource.
A job-wide resource is designed to be used by the entire job, and is
available to the complex, not just one execution host.  Job-wide
resources are requested outside of a

.I selection statement, 
in this form:
.IP " " 5
-l keyword=value[,keyword=value ...]
.LP
where 
.I keyword  
identifies either a consumable resource or a time-based resource such
as
.I walltime.

Examples of job-wide resources: walltime, scratch space, licenses

.B Do not mix old style resource 
.B or node specification with the 
.B new select and place statements.
Do not use one in a job script and the other on the command line.
This will result in an error.

.B Applying Resource Defaults
.br
Jobs get default resources, both 
.I job-wide 
and per-
.I chunk
with the following order of precedence, from 
.IP " " 5
Default
.B qsub
arguments
.br	
Default queue resources
.br	
Default server resources
.LP


For each 
.I chunk
in the job's selection statement, first queue chunk defaults are
applied, then server chunk defaults are applied.  If the chunk does not
contain a resource defined in the defaults, the default is
added.  The chunk defaults are called "default_chunk.RESOURCE".

For example, if the queue in which the job is enqueued has the
following defaults defined: 
.IP " " 5
default_chunk.ncpus=1
.br
default_chunk.mem=2gb
.LP
a job submitted with this selection statement:
.IP " " 5
select=2:ncpus=4+1:mem=9gb 
.LP
will have this specification after the default_chunk elements are applied:
.IP " " 5
select=2:ncpus=4:mem=2gb+1:ncpus=1:mem=9gb.  
.LP
In the above, mem=2gb and ncpus=1 are inherited from default_chunk.

The job-wide resource request is checked against queue resource
defaults, then against server resource defaults.  If a default
resource is defined which is not specified in the resource request, it
is added to the resource request.

.B Default Resources on Server or Queue
.br
The administrator can specify default resources on the server and
queue.  These resources can be job-wide or apply to chunks.
Specifying a job-wide resource has the same effect as adding -l
RESOURCE to the job's resource request.  Specifying a chunk resource is
the same as adding :RESOURCE=VALUE to the job's chunks (for chunks that
don't already specify that resource.)  Job-wide resources are
specified via resources_default on the server or queue, and chunk
resources are specified via default_chunk on the server or queue.

The administrator can also specify default resources to be added to
any qsub arguments, as well as default placement of jobs.

See the 
.B qmgr(8B)
man page for how to set default resources.

.B How Default Resources Work When 
.B Moving Jobs Between Queues
.br
If the job is moved from the current queue to a new queue, any default
resources in the job's resource list are removed.  This
includes a select specification and place directive generated by the
rules for conversion from the old syntax.  If a job's resource is
unset (undefined) and there exists a default value at the new queue or server,
that default value is applied to the job's resource list.  If either
.I select 
or 
.I place
is missing from the job's new resource list, it will 
be automatically generated,
using any newly inherited default values.

Example:
.RS
Given the following set of queue and server default values:
.IP Server 5
resources_default.ncpus=1
.IP "Queue QA" 5
resources_default.ncpus=2
.br
default_chunk.mem=2gb
.IP "Queue QB" 5
default_chunk.mem=1gb
.br
no default for ncpus
.LP
.RE
The following illustrate the equivalent select specification for jobs
submitted into queue QA and then moved to (or submitted directly to)
queue QB:
.IP "qsub -l ncpus=1 -lmem=4gb" 5
In QA:  select=1:ncpus=1:mem=4gb  -  no defaults need be applied
.br
In QB:  select=1:ncpus=1:mem=4gb  -  no defaults need be applied

.IP "qsub -l ncpus=1" 5
In QA: select=1:ncpus=1:mem=2gb
.br
In QB: select=1:ncpus=1:mem=1gb

.IP "qsub -lmem=4gb" 5
In QA: select=1:ncpus=2:mem=4gb
.br
In QB: select=1:ncpus=1:mem=4gb

.IP "qsub -l nodes=4" 5
In QA: select=4:ncpus=1:mem=2gb
.br
In QB: select=4:mem=1gb
.IP "qsub -l mem=16gb -l nodes=4" 5
In QA: select=4:ncpus=1:mem=4gb
.br
In QB: select=4:ncpus=1:mem=4gb
.RE
.RE
.LP

.B Limits on Resource Usage
.br
Each chunk's
per-chunk limits determine how much of any resource can be used in
that chunk.
Per-chunk resource usage limits are established by per-chunk
resources, both from explicit requests and from defaults.  

.I Job resource limits 
set a limit for per-job resource usage.  
.I Job resource limits 
are established both by requesting job-wide resources and 
when per-chunk consumable resources are summed.  
.I Job resource limits 
from sums of all chunks, including defaults, override those
from job-wide defaults and resource requests.
Limits include
both explicitly requested resources and default resources.

If a job's
.I job resource limit 
exceeds queue or server restrictions, it will not be put in the queue or 
accepted by the server.
If, while running, a job exceeds its limit for a consumable or time-based 
resource, it will be terminated.  See The 
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide.

.B Controlling Placement of Jobs
.br
Jobs are placed on vnodes according to their 
.I place
statements.  The 
.I place 
statement can be specified, in order of precedence, via:
.IP " " 5
Explicit placement request in 
.B qalter
.br
Explicit placement request in
.B qsub
.br
Explicit placement request in PBS job script directives
.br
Default 
.B qsub
place statement
.br
Queue default placement rules
.br
Server default placement rules
.br
Built-in default conversion and placement rules
.LP
The 
.I place
statement may be not be used without the 
.I select
statement.  

The 
.I place
statement has this form:
.IP " " 5
-l place=[
.I arrangement
][:
.I sharing
][:
.I grouping
]
.LP
where
.IP " " 5
.I arrangement 
is one of 
.I free
|
.I pack
|
.I scatter
| 
.I vscatter
.br
.I sharing
is one of 
.I excl 
| 
.I shared 
|
.I exclhost
.br
.I grouping 
can have only one instance of 
.I group=resource
.LP
and where
.IP " " 5
.I free:
Place job on any vnode(s).
.br
.I pack:
All chunks will be taken from one host.
.br
.I scatter:
Only one chunk with any MPI processes will be taken from a host.
A chunk with no MPI processes may be taken from the same vnode as
another chunk.
.br
.I vscatter:
Only one chunk is taken from any vnode.
.br
.I excl:
Only this job uses the vnodes chosen.
.br
.I exclhost:
The entire host is allocated to the job.
.br
.I shared:
This job can share the vnodes chosen.
.br
.I group=resource:
Chunks will be grouped according to a 
.I resource.  
This resource must be a string or string array.
All vnodes in the group must have a common value for the 
.I resource, 
which can be either the built-in resource
.I host
or a site-defined host-level resource.

Note that vnodes can have sharing attributes that override
job placement requests.  See the
.B pbs_node_attributes(7B)
man page.
.LP
.RS 5
.B Default Placement
.br
If, after all defaults have been applied to a resource request that
contains a selection statement, there is no place statement, then
.I arrangement
is set to 
.I free.
Default 
.I sharing
is 
.I shared.

If the job's place statement does not contain 
.I group=resource,
then a grouping defined at the queue level may be used, 
or a grouping defined at the server level if there is
none at the queue level.

.B Placement of Jobs Submitted 
.B with Old Syntax
.br
A job submitted with a 
node (
.I -lnodes=
) or resource (
.I -lncpus=
) specification will be converted to select and place,
according to the rules described below in 
.B BACKWARD COMPATIBILITY.
.RE

.B Boolean Resources
.br 
A boolean resource can be either true or false.  A resource request
can specify the value a boolean resource should have.  For
example, if some vnodes have
.I green=true 
and some have
.I red=true,
a selection statement for two vnodes, each with one CPU, all green and
no red, would be:
.IP " " 5
-l select=2:green=true:red=false:ncpus=1
.LP
.B Consumable Resources 
.br
Consumable resources are those whose use by a job reduces the amount
available to other concurrent jobs, e.g. memory 
.I (mem), 
CPUs (ncpus) and licenses.  
Non-consumable resources include time-based resources such as 
.I walltime 
and CPU time
.I (cput), 
and string-value resources such as architecture
.I (arch).

.B Custom Resources
.br
Custom resources are defined in PBS_HOME/server_priv/resourcedef.
Custom resources are site-defined and site-dependent.  Typically
used for licenses and scratch space.  PBS provides custom resources 
specifically for Cray systems.  See The
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide.

A job requesting a floating license must specify it outside of a 
.I selection statement, 
as a job-wide resource limit.  
A job requesting a node-locked license must specify it inside a 
.I selection statement
in a 
.I chunk.
See your system administrator.
Refer to The 
.B PBS Professional User's Guide.

Custom resources can be created to be invisible or read-only for
unprivileged users.  See the pbsnodes(8B), pbs_rstat(1B), pbs_rsub(1B),
qalter(1B), qselect(1B), qstat(1B), and qmgr(8B) man pages.
These restricted resources cannot be requested by a job via the 
.B qsub
command, regardless of privilege.  

.B Matching Jobs to Resources
.br
An unset resource is undefined.  An unset numerical resource
(i.e. float, long, size, or time) at the host level behaves as if its
value is zero, but at the server or queue level it behaves as if it
were infinite.  An unset string or string array resource at the
server, queue or vnode level cannot be matched by a job's resource
request.  An unset boolean resource at a server, queue, or vnode
behaves as if that resource is set to "false".

.SH BUILT-IN RESOURCES

.IP accelerator 10
Indicates whether this vnode is associated with an accelerator.
Host-level.  Can be requested only inside of a select statement.  On
Cray, this resource exists only when there is at least one associated
accelerator.  On Cray, this is set to True when there is at least one
associated accelerator whose state is UP.  On Cray, set to False when
all associated accelerators are in state DOWN.  Used for requesting
accelerators.
.br
Format: Boolean
.br
Python type: bool

.IP accelerator_memory 10
Indicates amount of memory for accelerator(s) associated with this
vnode.  Host-level.  Can be requested only inside of a select
statement.  On Cray, PBS sets this resource only on vnodes with at
least one accelerator with state = UP.  For Cray, PBS sets this
resource on the 0th NUMA node (the vnode with PBScrayseg=0), and the
resource is shared by other vnodes on the compute node.
.br
For example, on vnodeA_2_0: 
.br
.nf
   resources_available.accelerator_memory=4196mb 
On vnodeA_2_1: 
   resources_available.accelerator_memory=@vnodeA_2_0
Consumable.  
Format: Size
Python type: pbs.size
.fi

.IP accelerator_model 10
Indicates model of accelerator(s) associated with this vnode.
Host-level.  On Cray, PBS sets this resource only on vnodes with at
least one accelerator with state = UP.  Can be requested only inside
of a select statement.
.br
Non-consumable.  
.br
Format: String
.br
Python type: str

.IP aoe 10
List of AOEs (Application Operating Environments) 
that can be instantiated on a vnode.  An AOE is the environment that
results from provisioning a vnode.
Each job can request at most one AOE.  Cannot be set on Server's host.
Can be requested only inside of a select statement.  Settable by
Manager and Operator only; readable by all.  Non-consumable.
.br
Type: string_array

.IP arch 10
System architecture.  One architecture
can be defined for a vnode.  One architecture can be requested per
vnode.  Allowable values and effect on job placement are
site-dependent.  Can be requested only inside of a select statement.
Type: string.

.IP cput 10
Amount of CPU time used by the job for all processes on all
vnodes.  Establishes a
.I job resource limit.  
Can be requested only outside of a select statement.
Non-consumable.
Type: duration.

.IP exec_vnode 10
Read-only.  The vnodes that PBS estimates this job will use.  Cannot
be requested for a job; used for reporting only. 
.br
Type: String
.br
Python type: str

.IP file 10
Size of any single file that may be created by the job.
Can be requested only outside of a select statement.
Type: size.

.IP host 10
Name of execution host.
Can be requested only inside of a select statement.  Automatically 
set to the short form of 
the hostname in the Mom attribute. 
.br
On Cray compute node, set to 
.I <mpp_host>_<nid>.
.br
On CLE 2.2, "default" replaces value of 
.I mpp_host.
.br
Cannot be
changed.  Site-dependent.
Type: string.

.IP max_walltime 10
Maximum walltime allowed for a shrink-to-fit job.  Actual
walltime of job is between 
.I max_walltime 
and 
.I min_walltime.  
PBS sets walltime
for a shrink-to-fit job.  If this resource is specifed, 
.I min_walltime
must also be specified.  Must be greater than or equal to
.I min_walltime.  
Cannot be used for 
.I resources_min 
or 
.I resources_max.
Cannot be set on job arrays or reservations.  If not specified, PBS
uses 5 years as the maximum time slot.  Can be requested only outside
of a select statement.  Non-consumable.
.br
Default: None.  
.br
Type: duration.  
.br
Python type: pbs.duration

.IP mem 10
Amount of physical memory i.e. workingset allocated to 
the job, either job-wide or host-level.  Consumable.
Can be requested only inside of a select statement.
Type: size.

.IP min_walltime 10
Minimum walltime allowed for a shrink-to-fit job.  When this resource
is specified, job is a shrink-to-fit job.  If this attribute is set,
PBS sets the job walltime.  Actual job walltime is between
.I max_walltime 
and 
.I min_walltime.  
Must be less than or equal to
.I max_walltime.  
Cannot be used for 
.I resources_min 
or 
.I resources_max.
Cannot be set on job arrays or reservations.  Can be requested only
outside of a select statement.  Non-consumable.
.br
Default: None.  
.br
Type: duration.  
.br
Python type: pbs.duration

.IP mpiprocs 10
Number of MPI processes for this chunk.  Defaults to 1 if 
.I ncpus
> 0, 0 otherwise.  Can be requested only inside of a select statement.
Type: integer.

The number of lines in PBS_NODEFILE is the sum of the values
of 
.I mpiprocs
for all chunks requested by the job.  For each chunk with 
.I mpiprocs=P, 
the host name for that chunk is written to the PBS_NODEFILE
.I P
times.  Can be requested only inside of a select statement.

.IP mpparch
.B Deprecated. 
MPP compute node system type.  Can be requested only outside of a 
select statement.  Not consumable.  Allowable values: 
.I XT 
or 
.I X2.  
Cray-only resource.  Ignored at other systems.
.br
Type: string.

.IP mppdepth
.B Deprecated. 
Depth (number of threads) of each processor.  Specifies the number of
processors that each processing element will use.  Can be requested only outside of a 
select statement.  Not consumable. Cray-only resource.  Ignored at other systems.
.br
Default: 1.  
.br
Type: integer.

.IP mpphost
.B Deprecated. 
MPP host.  Can be requested only outside of a select statement.  
Not consumable. 
Cray-only resource.  Ignored at other systems.
.br
Type: string.
 
.IP mpplabels
.B Deprecated. 
List of node labels.
Runs the application only on those nodes with the specified 
labels.  Not consumable.   
Format: comma-separated list of labels and/or a range 
of labels.  Any lists containing commas should be enclosed in quotes escaped 
by backslashes.
For example:
.RS 14
#PBS -l mpplabels=\\"red,blue\\"
.RE
.IP
or 
.RS 14
qsub -l mpplabels=\\"red,blue\\"
.RE
.IP
Can be requested only outside of a select statement.
Cray-only resource.  Ignored at other systems.
.br
Type: string.

.IP mppmem
.B Deprecated. 
The maximum memory for all applications.  The per-processing-element
maximum resident set size memory limit.  Can be requested only outside 
of a select statement.  Not consumable. Cray-only resource.  Ignored at other systems.
.br
Type: size. 

.IP mppnodes
.B Deprecated. 
Manual placement list consisting of a comma-separated list of nodes
(node1,node2), a range of nodes (node1-node2), or a
combination of both formats. Node values are expressed as
decimal numbers.
The first number in a range must be less than the second
number (i.e., 8-6 is invalid). A complete node list is
required.   Any lists containing commas should be enclosed in quotes
escaped by backslashes. 
For example:
.RS 14
#PBS -l mppnodes=\\"40-48,52-60,84,86,88,90\\"
.RE
.IP
or 
.RS 14
qsub -l mppnodes=\\"40-48,52-60,84,86,88,90\\"
.RE
.IP
Can be requested only outside of a select statement.
Not consumable. Cray-only resource.  Ignored at other systems.
.br
Type: string.
.br
Python attribute value type: str

.IP mppnppn
.B Deprecated. 
Number of processing elements (PEs) per node.  
Can be requested only outside of a select statement.  Not consumable. 
Cray-only resource.  Ignored at other systems.
.br
Type: integer.

.IP mppwidth
.B Deprecated. 
Number of processing elements (PEs) for the job.  Can be requested 
only outside of a select statement.  Not consumable. 
Cray-only resource.  Ignored at other systems.
.br
Type: integer.

.IP naccelerators 10
Indicates number of accelerators on the host.  Host-level.  On Cray,
should not be requested for jobs; PBS does not pass the request to
ALPS.  On Cray, PBS sets this resource only on vnodes whose hosts have
at least one accelerator with state = UP.  PBS sets this resource to
the number of accelerators with state = UP.  For Cray, PBS sets this
resource on the 0th NUMA node (the vnode with PBScrayseg=0), and the
resource is shared by other vnodes on the compute node.
.nf
For example, on vnodeA_2_0:
   resources_available.naccelerators=1
On vnodeA_2_1:
   resources_available.naccelerators=@vnodeA_2_0
.fi
Can be requested only inside of a select statement, but should not be requested.
.br
Consumable.
.br
Format: Long
.br
Python type: int

.IP nchunk 10
This is the number of chunks requested between plus symbols in a
select statement.  For example, if the select statement is 
.br
-lselect=4:ncpus=2+12:ncpus=8 
.br
the value of nchunk for the first part is 4, and
for the second part it is 12.  The 
.I nchunk 
resource cannot be named in
a select statement; it can only be specified as a number preceding the
colon, as in the above example.  When the number is omitted, 
.I nchunk 
is 1.
This resource can be used to specify the default
number of chunks at the server or queue (replacing 
.I mppwidth.
)
.br
Example:  set queue myqueue default_chunk.nchunk=2
.br
This resource cannot be used in server and queue resources_min and 
resources_max.
.br
Settable by Manager and Operator; readable by all.
.br
Non-consumable.
.br
Format: Integer.
.br
Python type: int.
.br
Default value: 1

.IP ncpus 10
Number of processors requested.  Cannot be shared across vnodes.
Can be requested only inside of a select statement.
Consumable.  
.br
Type: integer.

.IP nice 10
Nice value under which the job is to be run.  Host-dependent.
Can be requested only outside of a select statement.
.br
Type: integer.

.IP nodect 10
.B Deprecated.  
Read-only.  Number of chunks in resource request from selection
directive, or number of nodes requested from node specification.
Otherwise defaults to value of 1.  Can be requested only outside 
of a select statement.
Type: integer.

.IP nodes
.B Deprecated.
.br
Number of hosts requested.  Integer.  See 
.B BACKWARD COMPATIBILITY.

.IP ompthreads 10
Number of OpenMP threads for this chunk.  Defaults to 
.I ncpus 
if not specified.  Can be requested only inside of a select statement.
Non-consumable.  
Type: integer.  Python type: int.

For the MPI process with rank 0, the environment variables NCPUS and  
OMP_NUM_THREADS are set to the value of 
.I ompthreads.
For other MPI processes, behavior is dependent on MPI implementation.
See The 
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide.

.IP pcput 10
Amount of CPU time allocated to any single process in the job.
Establishes a 
.I per-process resource limit.  
Can be requested only outside of a select statement.
Non-consumable.
Type: duration.

.IP pmem 10
Amount of physical memory (workingset) for use by any single
process of the job.  Establishes a
.I per-process resource limit.  
Can be requested only outside of a select statement.
Non-consumable.
Type: size

.IP preempt_targets
List of resources and/or queues.  Jobs requesting those resources or
in those queues are preemption targets.  Syntax:
.RS 14
Resource_List.<resource>=<value> 
.RE
.IP 
and/or 
.RS 14
queue=<queue name>.  
.RE
.IP 
You can
list multiple comma-separated targets.  Non-consumable.  
Can be requested only outside of a select statement.  
Type: string_array

.IP pvmem 10
Amount of virtual memory for use by any single process in the
job.  Establishes a
.I job resource limit.  
Can be requested only outside of a select statement.
Non-consumable.
Type: size.

.IP site 10
Arbitrary string resource.  Can be requested only outside of a select
statement.  Not consumable.  Type: string.  Python type: str

.IP software 10
Site-specific software specification.  Can be requested 
only outside of a select statement.
Allowable values and effect on job placement are
site-dependent.  Type: string.

.IP start_time 10
Read-only.  The estimated start time for this job.  Cannot be requested
for a job; used for reporting only.  
.br
Type: long
.br
Python type: int

.IP vmem 10
Amount of virtual memory for use by all concurrent processes in
the job.  Establishes a
.I chunk resource limit.  
Can be requested only inside of a select statement.
Not consumable.
Type: size.

.IP vnode 10
Name of virtual node (vnode) on which to execute.  
Can be requested only inside of a select statement.
Site-dependent.  Type: string.  See the
.B pbs_node_attributes(7B)
man page.

.IP vntype 10
This resource represents the type of the vnode.  Automatically set by
PBS to one of two specific values for cray vnodes.  Has no meaning for
non-Cray vnodes.  Can be requested only inside of a select statement.
.br
Automatically assigned values for Cray vnodes:
.br
.RS
.IP cray_compute 15 
This vnode represents part of a compute node.
.IP cray_login 15
This vnode represents a login node.
.LP
Non-consumable.
.br
Format: String array.
.br
Default value:  None.  
.br
Python type: str
.RE

.IP walltime 10
Amount of wall-clock time during which the job can run.  Establishes a
.I job resource limit.  
Can be requested only outside of a select statement.
Non-consumable.
Type: duration.

.SH CUSTOM RESOURCES FOR THE CRAY

.IP PBScrayhost 10
On CLE 2.2, this is set to "default".
.br
On CLE 3.0 and higher, used to delineate a Cray system, containing
ALPS, login nodes running PBS MOMs, and compute nodes, from a separate
Cray system with a separate ALPS.  The value of
.I PBScrayhost 
is set to
the value of 
.I mpp_host 
for this system.
.br
Non-consumable.  
.br
Format: String.
.br
Default: CLE 2.2: "default"; CLE 3.0 and higher: None.

.IP "PBScraylabel_<label name>" 10
Tracks labels applied to compute nodes.  For each label on a compute
node, PBS creates a custom resources whose name is a concatenation of
.I PBScraylabel_ 
and the name of the label.  PBS sets the value of the
resource to 
.I True 
on all vnodes representing the compute node.
.br
Name format: PBScraylabel_<label name>
.br
For example, if the label name is 
.I Blue,
the name of this resource is 
.I PBScraylabel_Blue.
.br
Format: Boolean.
.br
Default: None.

.IP PBScraynid 10
Used to track the node ID of the associated compute node.  All vnodes
representing a particular compute node share a value
for 
.I PBScraynid.  
The value of 
.I PBScraynid 
is set to the value of 
.I node_id 
for this compute node.  
.br 
Non-consumable.  
.br 
Format: String.  
.br 
Default: None

.IP PBScrayorder 10
Used to track the order in which compute nodes are listed in the Cray
inventory.  All vnodes associated with a particular compute node share
a value for 
.I PBScrayorder.  
Vnodes for the first
compute node listed are assigned a value of 1 for 
.I PBScrayorder.  
The
vnodes for each subsequent compute node listed are assigned a value
one greater than the previous value.  
.br 
Do not use this resource in a resource request.
.br
Non-consumable.  
.br
Format: Integer.  
.br
Default: None

.IP PBScrayseg 10
Tracks the segment ordinal of the associated NUMA node.  For the first
NUMA node of a compute host, the segment ordinal is 0, and the value
of 
.I PBScrayseg 
for the associated vnode is 0.  For the second NUMA
node, the segment ordinal is 1, 
.I PBScrayseg 
is 1, and so on.
.br
Non-consumable.  
.br
Format: String.  
.br
Default: None

.LP
.SH RESOURCE TYPES
.IP boolean 10
Boolean-valued resource.  Can be requested only inside of a 
select statement.  Non-consumable. 
Allowable values (case insensitive): True|T|Y|1|False|F|N|0
.br
Example: To select a vnode with red but not blue, 
.RS 15
-l select=1:red=true:blue=false
.RE
.IP float 10
Float. 
Allowable values: [+-] 0-9 [[0-9] ...][.][[0-9] ...]
.IP long 10
Long integer.
Allowable values: 0-9 [[0-9] ...]
.IP size 10
Number of bytes or words.  Expressed
in the form:
.RS 15
.I integer[suffix]
where 
.I suffix 
can be
.IP "\ b\ or\ \ w" 15
bytes or words.
.IP "kb\ or\ kw"
Kilo (2 to the 10th, or 1024) bytes or words.
.IP "mb\ or\ mw" 15
Mega (2 to the 20th, or 1,048,576) bytes or words.
.IP "gb\ or\ gw" 15
Giga (2 to the 30th, or 1,073,741,824) bytes or words.
.IP "tb\ or\ tw" 15
Tera (2 to the 40th, or 1024 gigabytes) bytes or words.
.IP "pb\ or\ pw" 15
Peta (2 to the 50th, or 1,048,576 gigabytes) bytes or words.

The size of a word is the word size on the execution host.
.RE
.IP string 10
String.  Non-consumable.
.br
Allowable values: [_a-zA-Z0-9][[-_a-zA-Z0-9[]#.] ...]
.br
(Leading underscore ("_"), alphabetic or numeric, 
followed by dash ("-"), underscore ("_"), alphabetic, numeric,
left bracket ("["), right bracket ("]"), hash ("#") or period ("."))
.IP "string_array" 10
String-valued resource which can contain multiple values.
Comma-separated list of strings.  
Non-consumable.  Resource request will succeed if request matches one
of the values.  Resource request can contain only one string.
.IP duration 10
The maximum time period the resource can be used.  Expressed
in seconds as an integer, or in the form:
.RS 15
.I [[hours:]minutes:]seconds[.milliseconds]
.RE
.LP
.SH BACKWARD COMPATIBILITY
.B Conversion to Select and Place
.br
For backward compatibility, a legal node specification or 
resource specification 
will be converted into selection and placement directives.  

.B Node Specification Conversion
.br
Node specification format:
.IP " " 5
-lnodes=[N:spec_list | spec_list]
.br
        [[+N:spec_list | +spec_list] ...]
.br
        [#suffix ...][-lncpus=Z]
.LP
where:
.IP " " 5
.I spec_list  
has syntax:  
.I spec[:spec ...]
.br
.I spec 
is any of:  
.I hostname | property | ncpus=X | cpp=X | ppn=P 
.br
.I suffix 
is any of: 
.I property | excl | shared
.br
.I N
and 
.I P 
are positive integers
.br
.I X 
and 
.I Z 
are non-negative integers
.LP
The node specification is converted into selection and placement directives as follows:
.IP " " 5
Each
.I spec_list 
is converted into one chunk, 
so that 
.I N:spec_list 
is converted into 
.I N 
chunks.

If 
.I spec 
is 
.I hostname
:
.br
The chunk will include 
.I host=hostname

If 
.I spec 
matches any vnode's 
.I resources_available.host 
value:
.br
The chunk will include 
.I host=hostname

If 
.I spec 
is 
.I property 
:
.br
The chunk will include 
.I property=true
.br
.I Property 
must be a site-defined host-level boolean resource.

If 
.I spec 
is 
.I ncpus=X 
or 
.I cpp=X
:
.br 
The chunk will include 
.I ncpus=X

If no 
.I spec 
is 
.I ncpus=X 
and no 
.I spec 
is 
.I cpp=X
:
.br 
The chunk will include 
.I ncpus=1

If 
.I spec 
is 
.I ppn=P
:
.br
The chunk will include 
.I mpiprocs=P
.br
Example: 
    -lnodes=4:ppn=2 
.br
is converted into 
.br
    -lselect=4:ncpus=2:mpiprocs=2

If 
.I -lncpus=Z 
is specified and no 
.I spec 
contains 
.I ncpus=X 
and no 
.I spec 
is 
.I ccp=X
:
.br
Every chunk will include 
.I ncpus=W,
.br
where 
.I W 
is 
.I Z 
divided by the total number of chunks.
.br
(Note:
.I W 
must be an integer; 
.I Z 
must be evenly divisible by the number of chunks.)

If 
.I property 
is a 
.I suffix 
:
.br
All chunks will include 
.I property=true

If 
.I excl 
is a 
.I suffix 
:
.br
The placement directive will be 
.I -lplace=scatter:excl

If 
.I shared 
is a 
.I suffix
:
.br
The placement directive will be 
.I -lplace=scatter:shared

If neither 
.I excl 
nor shared is a 
.I suffix
:
.br 
The placement directive will be 
.I -lplace=scatter
.LP
Example: 
.IP " " 5
-l nodes=3:green:ncpus=2:ppn=2+2:red
.LP
is converted to:
.IP " " 5
-l select=3:green=true:ncpus=4:mpiprocs=2+2:red=true:ncpus=1 
.br
-l place=scatter
.LP
Node specification syntax for requesting properties is deprecated.
The new boolean resource syntax "property=true" is only accepted in a
selection directive.  It is erroneous to mix old and new syntax.

.B Resource Specification Conversion
.br
The resource specification is converted to select and place statements 
after any defaults have been applied.

Resource specification format:
.IP " " 5
-lresource=value[:resource=value ...]
.LP
The resource specification is converted to:
.IP " " 5
select=1[:resource=value ...]
.br
place=pack
.br
.LP
with one instance of 
.I resource=value 
for each of the following 
host-level resources in the resource request:
.IP " " 5
built-in resources: 
.I ncpus 
| 
.I mem 
| 
.I vmem 
| 
.I arch 
| 
.I host

site-defined host-level resources listed in the Server's 
resourcedef file with flags including "h"

.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
The 
.B PBS Professional User's Guide,
pbs_node_attributes(7B),
pbs_rsub(1B),
qalter(1B), 
qmgr(8B), 
qstat(1B),
qsub(1B)

