.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_renew 1B "12 April 2007" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_renew 
- renew Kerberos credential
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_renew
[-d]
program\ [arg(s)] 
.br
.B pbs_renew
--version
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B pbs_renew
command is used internally by PBS when a job has a Kerberos credential.
The
.I program
is run as a child process with any arguments passed to the command line of
.I program.
The
.B pbs_renew
process runs periodically to renew any Kerberos credential.  It will
wait for the child process to return, clean up any Kerberos credential
and exit when the child process is done.
.LP

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-d" 8
Debug messages are printed to stderr.

.IP "--version" 8
The 
.B pbs_renew
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
qsub(1B)
