.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2016 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_node_attributes 7B "29 October 2013" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_node_attributes 
\- attributes of PBS vnodes


.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The vnode attributes listed are divided into those that can be set by
an Operator or Manager, and those that are read-only.

.B Settable Attributes
.br
Unless otherwise specified, the following attributes are readable by all, 
and can be set by a Manager only.

.IP comment
This attribute can be set to any string to inform the users
of any information relating to the node.   If this attribute is not explicitly
set, the PBS Server will use the attribute to pass information about the node
status, specifically why the node is down.  If the attribute is explicitly set
by the manager, it will not be modified by the Server.
.br
Format: String.
.br
Default: none
.br
Python attribute value type: str

.IP current_aoe
This attribute identifies the AOE currently instantiated on this vnode.
Cannot be set on Server's host.
.br
Format: string
.br
Default: unset
.br
Python attribute value type: str

.IP max_group_run
The maximum number of jobs owned by any users in a single group that are
allowed to be run on this vnode at one time.
.br
Can be set by Operator and Manager.
.br
Format: Integer
.br
Default: none
.br
Python attribute value type: int

.IP max_running
The maximum number of jobs allowed to be run on this vnode
at any given time.  
.br
Can be set by Operator and Manager.
.br
Format: integer.
.br
Default: none
.br
Python attribute value type: int

.IP max_user_run
The maximum number of jobs owned by a single user that are allowed to be 
run on this vnode at one time.  
.br
Can be set by Operator and Manager.
.br
Format: Integer
.br
Default: none
.br
Python attribute value type: int

.IP Mom
Hostname of host on which MOM daemon will run.  Can be explicitly set only via 
.B qmgr, 
and only at vnode creation.  Defaults to value of vnode resource (vnode name.)
.br
Python attribute value type: str

.IP no_multinode_jobs
Controls whether jobs which request more than one chunk are allowed to execute
on this vnode.  When this attribute is set to True, jobs requesting more than
one chunk are 
.B not
allowed to execute on this vnode.  Used for cycle harvesting.  See the 
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide.
.br
Format: Boolean.
.br
Default: False.
.br
Python attribute value type: bool

.IP ntype
This attribute defines the type of the vnode.   
Currently there are two types
of vnodes supported:
.RS
.IP PBS
PBS vnodes are the default type and are assumed to run multiple jobs. The
placement of the jobs
among them is controlled by the site policy defined in the Job Scheduler.
.RE
.IP
.br
Format: String.
.br
Allowable values: "PBS"
.br
Default value: PBS. 
.br
Python attribute value type: int

.IP pnames
The list of resources being used for placement sets.  
Comma-separated list of resource names. 
.br
Format: String.  
.br
Default: None
.br
Python attribute value type: str

.IP Port
Port number on which MOM daemon will listen.  Can be explicitly set only via
.B qmgr, 
and only at vnode creation.  
.br
Readable and settable by Operator and Manager only.
.br
Format: Integer.
.br
Default: 15002
.br
Python attribute value type: int

.IP Priority
The priority of this vnode compared with other vnodes.
.br
Format: integer.
.br
Valid values: -1024 to +1023
.br
Default: none
.br
Python attribute value type: int

.IP provision_enable
Controls whether this vnode can be provisioned.  If set to True, this vnode
may be provisioned.  Cannot be set on Server's host.  
.br
Format: Boolean
.br
Default: Unset
.br
Python attribute value type: bool

.IP queue
The queue with which this vnode is associated.  If set, only jobs in that queue
may run on this vnode.   If not set, any job in a queue without associated vnodes
may run on this vnode.
.br
Format: String: "queue name"
.br
Default value: none.
.br
Python attribute value type: pbs.queue

.IP resources_available
The list of resource and amounts available on this vnode.
If not explicitly set, the amount shown is that reported by the pbs_mom running
on the vnode.  Only the ncpus number is retained across Server
restarts.
.br
Can be set by Operator or Manager.
.br
Format: String "resources_available.resource_name=value"
.br
Default: none
.br
Python attribute value type: dictionary containing resource
.I name=value
pairs.  
.RS 11
Format: 
.I resources_available['<resource name>'] = <value>
where 
.I <resource name>
is any custom or built-in resource.
.RE
.IP
.IP resv_enable
Controls whether the vnode can be used for reservations.  If set to 
True, the vnode can be used for reservations.  Existing reservations
are not automatically removed when this attribute is set to False.
Reservations are incompatible with cycle harvesting.
For information on reservations and cycle harvesting, see the 
.B PBS Professional User's Guide 
and 
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide.
.br
Format: Boolean.
.br
Default: True.
.br
Python attribute value type: 

.IP sharing
Defines whether more than one job at a time can use the resources of this vnode 
or this host.
Either a) the vnode or host is allocated exclusively to one job, or b) the
vnode's or host's unused resources are available to other jobs.  This attribute is set in Version 2 configuration files via the 
.B pbs_mom -s insert 
command.  
.br
Can be set by Operator or Manager.
.br
Format: String.
.br
Allowable values: default_shared | default_excl | default_exclhost | 
ignore_excl | force_excl | force_exclhost | (unset)
.br
Example: vnodename: sharing=force_excl
.br
Default value: default_share.
.br
Python attribute value type: int
.sp
The behavior of a vnode or host is determined by a combination of its 
.I sharing
attribute and a job's placement directive.  The behavior is defined
as follows:
.nf
                |Vnode Behavior   |Host Behavior
                |when place=...   |when place=...
                |                 |   
sharing value   |unset share excl |exclhost !=exclhost
------------------------------------------------------------
not set          share share excl  excl     depends on place
default_shared   share share excl  excl     depends on place
default_excl     excl  share excl  excl     depends on place
default_exclhost excl  share excl  excl     depends on place
ignore_excl      share share share share    not exclusive
force_excl       excl  excl  excl  excl     not exclusive
force_exclhost   excl  excl  excl  excl     excl
.fi

.RE
.LP
.br

.IP state
The state of the vnode.  State values marked with an asterisk
("*") may be set by the manager or operator; the other states
are set internally.  
.br
Format: String containing comma-separated list of one or more states.
.br
Python attribute value type: int
.RS 
.IP "free"
Node is up and capable of accepting additional job(s).
.IP "offline *"
Node has been marked by operator or manager as unusable.
.IP down
Node is not responding to queries from the Server.  
.IP job-busy
All CPUs on the vnode are allocated to jobs.
.IP job-exclusive
The entire vnode has been exclusively allocated to one job at the job's request.
.IP busy
The vnode is reporting a load average greater than the configured high water
value.
.IP stale
Server can still communicate with MOM, but MOM is not reporting any information.
.IP state-unknown
The Server has never been able to contact the node.  Either pbs_mom is not
running on the node, the node hardware is down, or there is a network problem.
.IP provisioning
The vnode is in the process of being provisioned.
.IP resv-exclusive
The vnode has been allocated to a reservation that requested exclusive use 
of the vnode, and the reservation is running.
.IP unresolvable
The server cannot resolve the name of the vnode.
.IP wait-provisioning
This vnode needs to be provisioned, but cannot because the maximum number 
of concurrently provisioning vnodes has been reached.  See the 
.I max_concurrent_provision
server attribute.
.RE
.IP
.RE

.B Read-only Attributes
.br
The following attributes are read-only:

.IP in_multivnode_host
Specifies whether a vnode is part of a multi-vnoded host.  Used internally.
Do not set.  If the value of this attribute is unset, this vnode is not part
of a multi-vnode host.  If the value is 
.I 1,
this vnode is part of a multi-vnode host.
.br
Format: Integer
.br
No default value.
.br
Python attribute value type: int

.IP jobs
List of jobs running on the vnode.
This attribute is read-only.
.br
Format: "#/jobid,...", where # represents the number of the processor.
.br
Python attribute value type: str

.IP license
Indicates whether the vnode is socket-licensed.  A value of "l" indicates
that the vnode is socket-licensed.  Set by PBS.
.br 
Readable by manager, operator, user.
.br
Format: character
.br
Valid values: "l"
.br
Default value: unset
.br
Python attribute value type: str

.IP license_info
Indicates the number of socket licenses assigned to the vnode.
Set by PBS.  
.br
Format: integer
.br
Default value: unset
.br
Python attribute value type: int


.IP name
The name of the vnode.
.br
Format: String
.br
Python attribute value type: str

.IP pbs_version
The version of PBS for this vnode's MOM.  
.br
Format: String
.br
Python attribute value type: str

.IP pcpus
.B Deprecated.  
The number of physical CPUs on the vnode.   
.br
Format: Integer
.br
Python attribute value type: int

.IP resv
List of advance and standing reservations pending on the vnode.
Comma-separated list of reservations to which the vnode has been
allocated.
.br
Format: String: reservation ID, reservation ID [...]
.br
Example: resv = R142.examplemachine, R143.examplemachine
.br
Python attribute value type: str

.IP resources_assigned
The total amount of certain types of resources allocated to jobs running
on this vnode. 
.br
Format: String.
.br
Python attribute value type: dictionary containing resource
.I name=value
pairs.  
.RS 11
Format: 
.I resources_available['<resource name>'] = <value>
where 
.I <resource name>
is any custom or built-in resource.
.RE
.IP

.IP topology_info
This attribute contains information about the topology of the vnode.  Visible
to hooks only.  Invisible to manager, operator, user.
.br
Format: string
.br
Default value: unset
.br
Python attribute value type: str


.SH SEE ALSO
The 
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide, 
pbs_resources(7B),
qmgr(1B)

