.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2017 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_resv_attributes 7B "1 February 2016" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_resv_attributes 
\- attributes of PBS advance and standing reservations

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Settable Attributes
.br
The following attributes can be read and set by users, Operators, and Managers:

.IP Account_Name
No longer used.

.IP Authorized_Groups
List of groups who can or cannot submit jobs to this reservation.
Group names are interpreted relative to the server, not the 
submission host.
This list is used to set the reservation queue's 
.I acl_groups 
attribute.  See the 
.I G 
option to the 
.B pbs_rsub 
command.
.br
Format: [+|-]group_name,...,[+|-]group_name] 
.br
Default value: owner's login group.
.br
Python attribute value type: pbs.acl

.IP "Authorized_Hosts"
The list of hosts from which jobs can and cannot be submitted to this reservation. 
This list is used to set the reservation queue's 
.I acl_hosts
attribute.  See the 
.I H
option to the 
.B pbs_rsub 
command.  
Hostnames may be wildcarded using an asterisk, according to the following rules:
.RS
.IP "" 5
- A hostname can contain at most one asterisk
.br
- The asterisk must be the leftmost label
.LP
.br
Examples:
.IP "" 5
*.test.example.com
.br
*.example.com
.br
*.com
.LP

.br
Format: [+|-]hostname, ... , [+|-]hostname
.br
Default: Jobs can be submitted from all hosts.
.br
Python attribute value type: pbs.acl
.RE

.IP Authorized_Users 
The list of users who can or cannot submit jobs to this reservation.
This list is used to set the reservation queue's 
.I acl_users
attribute.  See the 
.I U 
option to the 
.B pbs_rsub 
command.
.br
Format: [+|-]user[hostname.domain],....,[+|-]... where, '-' means "deny" and '+' 
means "allow". 
The hostname portion of a username may be wildcarded, following the same
rules as for the 
.I Authorized_Hosts
reservation attribute.
.br
Default value: reservation owner only.
.br
Python attribute value type: pbs.acl

.IP group_list
Comma-separated list of group names.
.br
Format: group@hostname[,group@hostname ...]
.br
Python attribute value type: pbs.group_list

.IP "Mail_Points"
Determines the list of events for which mail is sent by the server.  Mail 
is sent to the list of users specified in the 
.I Mail_Users
attribute.  See the 
.I m mail_points 
option to the 
.B pbs_rsub 
command.
.br
Format: string consisting of one of more letters "a", "b", "c", "e", 
or the string "n".  Cannot use "n" with any other letter.
Default value: "ac".
.br
Python attribute value type: pbs.group_list

.RS
.IP a
Notify when reservation is terminated
.IP b
Notify when reservation period begins
.IP c
Notify when reservation is confirmed
.IP e
Notify when reservation period ends
.IP n
Do not send mail.  Cannot be used with other letters.
.RE
.br


.IP "Mail_Users"
The set of users to whom mail is sent for the reservation events
specified in the 
.I Mail_Points
attribute.  See the 
.I M mail_list 
option to the 
.B pbs_rsub 
command.
.br
Format: string of the form, user@host[,user@host].... .  
.br
Default value: reservation owner only.
.br
Python attribute value type: pbs.user_list

.IP Priority
No longer used.

.IP "Reserve_Name"
The name assigned to the reservation during creation, if specified.  See the 
.I N 
option to the 
.B pbs_rsub 
command.
.br
Format: string of up to 15 characters, where the first character is alphabetic.
.br
Default value: none.
.br
Python attribute value type: str

.IP "Resource_List"
The list of resources allocated to the reservation.  Jobs running in
the reservation cannot use in aggregate more than the specified amount
of a resource.
.br
Format: a set of
.I resource=value
strings.  
.br
Default value: none.
.br
Python attribute value type: dictionary: 
.br
.RS 10
Resource_List["<resource name>"]=<resource value>
.br
where <resource> name is any built-in or custom resource
.RE
.LP

.IP User_List
No longer used.
.LP
.B Read-only Attributes
.br
The following reservation attributes are read-only for users, Operators, and
Managers:

.IP ctime
The time that the reservation was created.
.br
Format: Date
.br
Python attribute value type: int

.IP hashname
No longer used.

.IP "interactive"
Number of seconds that the 
.B pbs_rsub 
command will block while waiting for confirmation or denial of the 
reservation.  A negative value indicates that the reservation is 
automatically deleted if it cannot be confirmed in the time specified.
A positive value indicates that the reservation is not automatically
deleted after this time.  See the 
.I -I block_time
option to the 
.B pbs_rsub 
command.
.br
Format: integer.
.br
Python attribute value type: int

.IP mtime
The time that the reservation was last modified.
.br
Format: Date
.br
Python attribute value type: int


.IP queue
Name of the reservation queue.  Jobs that 
are to use resources belonging to this reservation are submitted to this queue. 
.br
Format for an advance reservation:
.I R<unique integer>
.br
Format for a standing reservation:
.I S<unique integer>
.br
Python attribute value type: pbs.queue

.IP reserve_count
The total number of occurrences in the standing reservation.
.br 
Format: integer.
.br
Python attribute value type: int

.IP reserve_duration
Reservation duration in seconds.  For a standing reservation, this is the
duration for one occurrence.
.br
Format: integer.
.br
Python attribute value type: pbs.duration

.IP reserve_end 
The date and time when an advance reservation or soonest occurrence of a
standing reservation ends.  
.br
Format: Date.
.br
Python attribute value type: long


.IP reserve_index
The index of the soonest occurrence of a standing reservation.
.br
Format: integer.
.br
Python attribute value type: int


.IP reserve_ID
The reservation identifier.  
.br
Format for an advance reservation: string of the form 
.br
R<unique integer>.server_name
.br
Format for a standing reservation: string of the form 
.br
S[unique integer].server_name
.br
Python attribute value type: str


.IP "Reserve_Owner"
The login name on the submitting host of the user who created the
reservation.
.br
Python attribute value type: str

.IP reserve_retry
If this reservation becomes degraded, this is set to the 
next time that PBS will attempt to reconfirm this reservation.
.br
Format: Integer seconds
.br
Python attribute value type: int

.IP reserve_rrule
The rule that describes the recurrence pattern of a standing reservation.
See the 
.I r
option to the 
.B pbs_rsub
command.
.br
Python attribute value type: str

.br
Format takes one of two forms:
.RS 
"FREQ=
.I freq_spec;
COUNT=
.I count_spec;
.I interval_spec"
.br
or
.br
"FREQ=
.I freq_spec;
UNTIL=
.I until_spec; interval_spec"
.br
where
.RS 5
.IP freq_spec 15
Frequency with which the standing reservation repeats.  Valid values are:
.br
WEEKLY|DAILY|HOURLY


.IP count_spec 15
The exact number of occurrences.  Number up to 4 digits in length.  
Format: integer.


.IP interval_spec 15
Specifies interval.  Format is one or both of:
BYDAY = MO|TU|WE|TH|FR|SA|SU 
.br
or
.br
BYHOUR = 0|1|2|...|23
.br

.IP until_spec 15
Occurrences will start up to but not after date and time 
specified.
.br
Format: YYYYMMDD[THHMMSS] 
.br
Note that the year-month-day section is separated from 
the hour-minute-second section by a capital T.
.RE
.RE

.IP reserve_start 
The date and time when the reservation period for the reservation 
or soonest occurrence begins.  
.br
Format: Date
.br
Python attribute value type: long


.IP reserve_state
The state of the reservation.  
.br
Python attribute value type: reservation state constant.  

The abbreviations, states, and Python constants are:
.RS

.IP "NO   RESV_NONE            RESV_STATE_NONE"
No reservation yet.

.IP "UN   RESV_UNCONFIRMED     RESV_STATE_UNCONFIRMED "
Reservation request is awaiting confirmation.

.IP "CO   RESV_CONFIRMED       RESV_STATE_CONFIRMED "
Reservation has been confirmed.  For a standing reservation, this means
that all occurrences of the reservation have been confirmed.

.IP "WT   RESV_WAIT            RESV_STATE_WAIT "
Unused.  

.IP "TR   RESV_TIME_TO_RUN     RESV_STATE_TIME_TO_RUN "
Start of the reservation period.

.IP "RN   RESV_RUNNING         RESV_STATE_RUNNING "
Reservation period has started and reservation is running.

.IP "FN   RESV_FINISHED        RESV_STATE_FINISHED "
End of the reservation period.

.IP "BD   RESV_BEING_DELETED   RESV_STATE_BEING_DELETED "
Reservation is being deleted.

.IP "DE   RESV_DELETED         RESV_STATE_DELETED "
Reservation has been deleted.

.IP "DJ   RESV_DELETING_JOBS   RESV_STATE_DELETING_JOBS "
Jobs belonging to the reservation are being deleted.
.RE

.IP "reserve_substate"
The substate of the reservation or occurrence.  The 
substate is used internally by the PBS server in managing the reservation.   
.br
Format: integer.
.br
Python attribute value type: int

.IP reserve_type
No longer used.

.IP resv_nodes
The list of vnodes and resources allocated from them to satisfy 
the chunks requested for this reservation or occurrence.
.br
Format: (vnode_name:resource=value[:resource=value]...)
.RS 15
[+(vnode_name:resource=value[:resource=value])+...
.RE
.IP
Python attribute value type: pbs.exec_vnode

.IP server
Name of server.
.br
Python attribute value type: pbs.server

.IP Variable_List
List of environment variables used by the reservation.
.br
Format: string of the form 
.I name=value[,name=value]... .

.br
Python attribute value type: dictionary: 
.RS 10
Variable_List["<variable name>"]=<value>.  
.br
Note that PBS environment variables listed in the 
.B qsub(1B)
man page are not settable.
.RE
.LP

.SH FORMATS
.IP Datetime 
[[[[CC]YY]MM]DD]hhmm[.SS]

.IP Date
<Day of week> <Name of month> <Day of month> <HH:MM:SS> <YYYY>


.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional User's Guide,
the
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
.br
pbs_rstat(1B), 
pbs_rsub(1B), 
pbs_resources(7B)

