.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_hook_attributes 7B "25 January 2018" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_hook_attributes 
\- attributes of PBS hooks

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Hook attributes can be set, unset, and viewed using the 
.B qmgr 
command.
See the 
.B qmgr(1B) 
man page.

An unset hook attribute takes the default value for that attribute.

Under UNIX/Linux, root privilege is required in order to operate on
hooks.  Under Windows, this must be done from the installation
account.  For domained environments, the installation account must be
a lo cal account that is a member of the local Administrators group on
the local computer.  For standalone environments, the ins tallation
account must be a local account that is a member of the local
Administrators group on the local computer.

.IP "alarm=<n>"
Specifies the number of seconds to allow a hook to run before
the hook times out.
.br
Set by administrator.
.br
Valid values: >0
.br
Format: Integer
.br
Default value: 30

.IP "debug"
Specifies whether or not the hook produces debugging files under
PBS_HOME/server_priv/hooks/tmp or PBS_HOME/mom_priv/hooks/tmp.  Files
are named hook_<hook event>_<hook name>_<unique ID>.in, .data, and .out.
When this is set to 
.I true, 
the hook leaves debugging files.
.br
Set by administrator.
.br
Format: Boolean
.br
Default value: False

.IP "enabled"
Determines whether or not a hook is run when its triggering event occurs.
If a hook's 
.I enabled
attribute is 
.I True, 
the hook is run.
.br
Set by administrator.
.br
Format: Boolean
.br
Default: True

.IP "event"
List of events that trigger the hook.  Can be operated on with 
the "=", "+=", and "-=" operators.  The 
.I provision
event cannot be combined with any other events.
.br
Valid events: 
.RS 11
.nf
"queuejob"
"modifyjob" 
"movejob" 
"resvsub" 
"runjob"
"periodic"
"provision"
"execjob_begin"
"execjob_end"
execjob_prologue"
"execjob_epilogue" 
"execjob_preterm" 
"execjob_launch" 
"execjob_attach"
"exechost_startup" 
"exechost_periodic"
"" (meaning no event)
.fi
.RE
.IP
.br
Set by administrator.
.br
Format: string array 
.br
Default value: "" (meaning none, i.e. the hook is not triggered)

.IP "fail_action"
Specifies the action to be taken when hook fails due to alarm call or
unhandled exception, or to an internal error such as not enough disk
space or memory.  Can also specify a subsequent action to be taken
when hook runs successfully.  Value can be either "none" or one or more of 
"offline_vnodes", "clear_vnodes_upon_recovery", and "scheduler_restart_cycle". 
If this attribute is set to multiple values, scheduler restart happens last.
See the Hooks chapter in the PBS Professional Administrator's Guide.
.br
.I offline_vnodes
.RS 11
After unsuccessful hook execution, offlines the vnodes managed by the MoM
executing the hook.  Only available for execjob_prologue, exechost_startup
and execjob_begin hooks.
.RE
.IP
.I clear_vnodes_upon_recovery
.RS 11
After successful hook execution, clears vnodes previously offlined via
offline_vnodes fail action.  Only available for exechost_startup hooks.
.RE
.IP
.I scheduler_restart_cycle
.RS 11
After unsuccessful hook execution, restarts scheduling cycle.  Only 
available for execjob_begin and execjob_prologue hooks.
.RE
.IP
.br
Set by administrator.
.br
Format: string_array
.br
Default value: "none"

.IP "freq"
Number of seconds between periodic or exechost_periodic triggers.
.br
Set by administrator.
.br 
Format: integer
.br
Default: 120 seconds

.IP "order"
Indicates relative order of hook execution, for hooks sharing a trigger.
Hooks with lower 
.I order
values execute before those with higher values.
Does not apply to periodic or exechost_periodic hooks.
.br
Set by administrator.
.br
Format: Integer
.br
Default value: 1

.IP "Type"
The type of the hook.  Cannot be set for a built-in hook.
.br
Valid values: "pbs", "site"
.br
.I pbs
.RS 11
Hook is built in.
.RE
.IP
.I site
.RS 11
Hook is custom (site-defined).
.RE
.IP
.br
Set by administrator.
.br
Format: String
.br
Default value: "site"

.IP "user"
Specifies who executes the hook.  
.br
Valid values: "pbsadmin", "pbsuser"
.br
.I "pbsadmin"
.RS 11
The hook executes as root.  
.RE
.IP
.I "pbsuser"
.RS 11
The hook executes as the triggering job's owner.
.RE
.IP
.br
Set by administrator.
.br
Format: String
.br
Default value: "pbsadmin"

.SH SEE ALSO
The
.I PBS Professional Hooks Guide,
the
.I PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
the
.I PBS Professional Programmer's Guide,
.br
qmgr(1B),
pbs_module(7B), 
pbs_stathook(3B)


