.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2021 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of both the OpenPBS software ("OpenPBS")
.\" and the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" OpenPBS is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" OpenPBS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public
.\" License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is commercially licensed software that shares a common core with
.\" the OpenPBS software.  For a copy of the commercial license terms and
.\" conditions, go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/agreement.html) or contact the
.\" Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair's dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of OpenPBS and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair's trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "OpenPBS®", "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair's logos is
.\" subject to Altair's trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_login 1B "15 July 2020" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_login 
- cache encrypted user password for authentication
.SH Synopsis
.B pbs_login
.br
.B pbs_login
-m <PBS service account password>
.br
echo <password>|
.B pbs_login
-p

.SH Description
The 
.B pbs_login 
command encrypts the password and caches it locally where it can be
used by daemons for authorization.

Job submitters must run this command at each submission host each time
their password changes.

On Windows, the 
.B win_postinstall 
script calls 
.B pbs_login 
to store the PBS service account password so that the account user can
be authenticated by daemons.

.SH Required Privilege
Can be run by any user.


.SH Options to pbs_login
.IP "(no options)" 8
Queries user for password.

.IP "-m <PBS service account password>" 8
This option is intended to be used only by the PBS service account,
which is the account that is used to execute 
.B pbs_mom 
via the Service Control Manager on Windows.  This option is used during installation
when invoked by the
.B win_postinstall 
script, or by the administrator when the
PBS service account password has changed.  Stores PBS service account
password in the mom_priv directory.

.IP "-p" 8
Caches user password on client host.  Intended to be run by job
submitter at client host.  Allows job submitter to be authenticated
by daemons.

