.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2020 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of both the OpenPBS software ("OpenPBS")
.\" and the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" OpenPBS is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" OpenPBS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public
.\" License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is commercially licensed software that shares a common core with
.\" the OpenPBS software.  For a copy of the commercial license terms and
.\" conditions, go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/agreement.html) or contact the
.\" Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair's dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of OpenPBS and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair's trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "OpenPBS®", "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair's logos is
.\" subject to Altair's trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_rdel 1B "6 May 2020" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_rdel 
\- delete a PBS reservation 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_rdel
<reservation ID>[,<reservation ID>...]
.br
.B pbs_rdel
--version
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B pbs_rdel
command deletes reservations in the order specified.

This command deletes the specified reservations, whether or not they
are running, all jobs in the reservations, and the reservation queues.

.B Required Privilege
.br
A reservation may be deleted by its owner, a PBS Operator,
or a PBS Manager.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--version" 10
The 
.B pbs_rdel
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH OPERANDS
The pbs_rdel command accepts one or more 
.I reservation ID
operands.  
.br
For an advance or job-specific reservation this has the form:
.RS 4
.I "R<sequence number>[.<server name>][@<remote server>]"
.RE
For a standing reservation this has the form:
.RS 4
.I "S<sequence number>[.<server name>][@<remote server>]"
.RE
For a maintenance reservation this has the form:
.RS 4
.I "M<sequence number>[.<server name>][@<remote server>]"
.RE

.I @<remote server> 
specifies a reservation at a server other than the default server.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP "Zero" 10 
Upon success
.IP "Greater than zero" 10
Upon failure to process any operand

.SH SEE ALSO
pbs_rsub(1B),
pbs_rstat(1B),
pbs_resv_attributes(7B)
