.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2017 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH qdel 1B "8 October 2012" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B qdel 
- deletes PBS jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdel 
[-x] 
[\-Wforce | -Wsuppress_email=<N>] 
.RS 6
job_identifier [job_identifier ...]
.RE
.B qdel
--version
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B qdel 
command deletes jobs in the order given, whether they are at the local
server or at a remote server.  

The qdel command is used without options to delete queued, running,
held, or suspended jobs, while the
.I -x  
option gives it the additional capacity to delete finished or moved
jobs.  With the
.I -x 
option, this command can be used on finished and moved jobs, in
addition to queued, running, held, or suspended jobs.

When this command is used without the 
.I -x 
option, if job history is enabled, the deleted job's history is
retained.  The 
.I -x 
option is used to additionally remove the history of the job being
deleted.

.LP
A PBS job may be deleted by its owner, an operator, or the
administrator.  The server deletes a PBS job by sending a 
.B SIGTERM
signal, then, if there are remaining processes, a
.B SIGKILL 
signal.  

If someone other than the job's owner deletes the job, mail is
sent to the job's owner, or to a list of mail recipients if 
specified during 
.B qsub.  
See the 
.B qsub(1B)
man page.
.LP

.B "How Behavior of qdel Command Can Be Affected"
.RS 3
The server's 
.I default_qdel_arguments
attribute may affect the behavior of the 
.B qdel 
command.  This attribute is settable by the administrator 
via the 
.B qmgr
command.  The attribute may be set to "-Wsuppress_email=<N>".
The server attribute is overridden by command line arguments.
See the 
.B pbs_server_attributes(1B) 
man page.

If the job is in the process of provisioning,
it can be deleted only by using the 
.I -W force
option.
.RE

.B Sequence of Events
.IP " " 3
The job's running processes are killed.
.IP
The epilogue runs.
.IP
Files that were staged in are staged out.  This includes
standard out (.o) and standard error (.e) files.
.IP
Files that were staged in or out are deleted.
.IP
The job's temp directory is removed.
.IP
The job is removed from the MOM(s) and the server.
.LP

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "(no options)" 10
Can delete queued, running, held, or suspended jobs.  
Does not delete job history for specified job(s).
.IP "-W force" 10
Deletes the job whether or not the job's execution host is 
reachable.  Deletes the job whether or not the job is in the
process of provisioning.  Cannot be used with the 
.I -Wsuppress_email
option.
.LP
.IP "-Wsuppress_email=<N>" 10
Sets limit on number of emails sent when deleting multiple jobs.  If 
.I N
>= 1 and 
.I N 
or more 
.I job_identifiers 
are given, 
.I N 
emails are sent.  If 
.I N
>=1 and less than 
.I N 
job identifiers are given, the number of emails is
the same as the number of jobs.  If 
.I N
=0, this option is ignored.  If 
.I N
= -1, no email is sent.
The 
.I <N>
argument is an integer.  Note that there is no space between "W" and "suppress_email".
Cannot be used with the 
.I -Wforce
option.
.LP
.IP "-x" 10
Can delete running, queued, suspended, held, finished, or moved jobs.
Deletes job history for specified job(s).
.LP
.IP "--version" 10
The 
.B qdel
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH OPERANDS
The 
.B qdel 
command accepts one or more
.I job_identifier
operands.  
.B Square brackets in the following 
.B description have two different meanings.  
Job array identifiers have square brackets, 
.B and
the brackets indicate the contents are optional for 
.I "[.server_name]" 
and 
.I "[@server]".
The format of 
.I job_identifier
is:

.IP "Jobs" 10
.I sequence_number[.server_name][@server]
.LP
.IP "Job arrays" 10
.I sequence_number[][.server_name][@server]
.LP
.IP "Array range" 10
.I sequence_number[<first>-<last>][.server_name][@server]
.br
.I first
and 
.I last
are the first and last indices of the subjobs to be deleted.
.LP
.IP "Subjob" 10
sequence_number[<index>][.server_name][@server]
.br
.I index
is the index of the subjob to be deleted.
.LP
.IP " " 10
Job array identifiers must be enclosed in double quotes for some shells.
.LP

.SH STANDARD ERROR
The 
.B qdel 
command writes a diagnostic message to standard error for each
error occurrence.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero upon successful processing of input.
.LP
Greater than zero upon error.

.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional User's Guide,
the
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
.br
pbs_queue_attributes(7B), pbs_server_attributes(1B), 
qsub(1B), qsig(1B), pbs_deljob(3B)
