.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2017 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH qmove 1B "5 Oct 2012" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B qmove 
- move PBS batch job

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qmove 
destination job_identifier ...
.br
.B qmove
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
To move a job is to remove the job from the queue in which it 
resides and place the job in another queue. 

The
.B qmove
command can be used on job arrays, but not on subjobs or ranges of
subjobs.  

Note that job arrays can only be moved from one server to another if
they are in the 'Q', 'H', or 'W' states, and only if there are no
running subjobs.  The state of the job array is preserved, and the job
array will run to completion on the new server.
.LP
A job in the
.B Running ,
.B Transiting ,
or
.B Exiting
state cannot be moved.  A job in the process of provisioning cannot 
be moved.

The behavior of the 
.B qmove 
command may be affected by 
any site hooks.  Site hooks can modify the job's attributes, 
change its routing, etc.

.SH EFFECT OF PRIVILEGE ON BEHAVIOR

An unprivileged user can use the 
.B qmove 
command to move a job only when
the move would not violate queue restrictions.  A privileged user
(root, Manager, Operator) can use the 
.B qmove 
command to move a job
under some circumstances where an unprivileged user cannot.  The
restrictions that apply only to unprivileged users are listed here:

.RS 4
The queue must be enabled
.br
Moving the job into the queue must not exceed the queue limits for
jobs or resources
.br
If the job is an array job, the size of the job array must not exceed 
.I max_array_size 
for the queue
.br 
If the queue is accepting jobs only from routing queues, unprivileged
users cannot move jobs into it using the 
.B qmove 
command
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--version" 10
The 
.B qmove
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.


.SH OPERANDS
The first operand is the new
.I destination 
for the jobs.  It will be accepted in the syntax:
.RS 4
.I "queue"
.br
.I "@server"
.br
.I "queue@server"
.RE

.LP
If the 
.I destination
operand describes only a queue, then qmove
will move jobs into the queue of the specified name at the job's current server.
.LP
If the 
.I destination
operand describes only a batch server, then qmove
will move jobs into the default queue at that batch server.
.LP
If the 
.I destination
operand describes both a queue and a batch server, then qmove
will move the jobs into the specified queue at the specified server.
.LP
All following operands are
.I job_identifiers
which specify the jobs to be moved to the new
.I destination .
The qmove
command accepts one or more
.I job_identifier
operands of the form:
.RS 4
.I "sequence_number[.server_name][@server]"
.RE

Note that some shells require that you enclose a job array identifier in
double quotes.

.br
.SH STANDARD ERROR
The qmove command will write a diagnostic messages to standard error for each
error occurrence.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Upon successful processing of all the operands presented to the
qmove command, the exit status will be a value of zero.
.LP
If the qmove command fails to process any operand, the
command exits with a value greater than zero.
\" turn off any extra indent left by the Sh macro
.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional User's Guide,
the
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
.br
qsub(1B), pbs_movejob(3B)
