.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2017 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH qmsg 1B "17 August 2011" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B qmsg 
\- send message to PBS batch jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qmsg
[-E] [-O] message_string
job_identifier ...
.br
.B qmsg
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
To send a message to a job is to write a message string into one or
more output files of the job.  Typically this is done to leave an
informative message in the output of the job.
.LP
The
.B qmsg
command writes messages into the files of jobs
by sending a 
.I "Message Job"
batch request to the batch server that owns the job.
The 
.B qmsg
command does not directly write the message into the files of the job.

The 
.B qmsg
command cannot be used on job arrays, subjobs or ranges of subjobs.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-E" 15
Specifies that the message is written to the standard error of each job.
.IP "-O" 15
Specifies that the message is written to the standard output of each job.
.IP "--version" 15
The 
.B qmsg
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.
.LP
If no option is specified, the message will be written to the standard
error of the job.

.SH  OPERANDS
The first operand,
.I message_string ,
is the message to be written.  If the string contains blanks, the string
must be quoted.
If the final character of the string is not a newline, a newline character
will be added when written to the job's file.
.LP
All following operands are
.I job_identifiers
which specify the jobs to receive the message string.
The 
.B qmsg 
command accepts one or more
.I job_identifier
operands of the form:
.RS 4
.I "sequence_number[.server_name][@server]"
.RE

.br
.SH STANDARD ERROR
The 
.B qmsg
command will write a diagnostic message to standard error for
each error occurrence.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Upon successful processing of all the operands presented to the
.B qmsg
command, the exit status will be a value of zero.
.LP
If the 
.B qmsg 
command fails to process any operand, the
command exits with a value greater than zero.
.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional User's Guide,
the
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide, 
.br
qsub(1B), pbs_msgjob(3B)
