.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2017 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH qorder 1B "5 Oct 2012" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B qorder 
\- exchange order of two PBS batch jobs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qorder 
job_identifier job_identifier
.br
.B qorder 
--version
.SH DESCRIPTION

Allows the exchange of two jobs' positions in the queue or queues in
which the jobs reside.  

No attribute of the job, e.g. priority, is changed.
The impact of interchanging the order within or between queues is dependent on local
job scheduling policy; contact your systems administrator.  

.SH RESTRICTIONS
The two jobs must be located at the same server.
.br
A job in the
.B running
state cannot be reordered.
.br
The 
.B qorder
command can be used on job arrays, but not on subjobs or ranges of subjobs.

.SH EFFECT OF PRIVILEGE ON BEHAVIOR 
For an unprivileged user to reorder jobs, both jobs must be owned by
the user.  A privileged user (Manager, Operator) can reorder any jobs.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--version" 8
The 
.B qorder
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH OPERANDS
Both operands are
.I job_identifiers
which specify the jobs to be exchanged.
The 
.B qorder
command accepts two
.I job_identifier
operands of the form:
.RS 4
.I "sequence_number[.server_name][@server]"
.RE

The server specification for the two jobs must agree as to the current
location of the two job ids.

Note that some shells require that you enclose a job array identifier in
double quotes.

.SH STANDARD ERROR
The 
.B qorder 
command will write diagnostic messages to standard error for each
error occurrence.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Upon successful processing of all the operands presented to the
.B qorder 
command, the exit status will be a value of zero.
.LP
If the 
.B qorder 
command fails to process any operand, the
command exits with a value greater than zero.
\" turn off any extra indent left by the Sh macro
.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional User's Guide,
the
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
.br
qsub(1B), qmove(1B), pbs_orderjob(3B), pbs_movejob(3B)
