.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH qrls 1B "18 December 2017" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B qrls 
- release hold on PBS jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qrls
[-h <hold list>] <job ID> [<job ID> ...]
.br
.B qrls
--version
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B qrls
command removes or releases holds on batch jobs or job arrays, 
but not on subjobs or ranges of subjobs.

A job may have one or more types of holds which make the job
ineligible for execution.

If you 
.B qrls
a job whose 
.I Execution_Time
attribute is not set to a time in the future, the job changes to the 
.I queued
state.  If 
.I Execution_Time
is in the future, the job changes to the
.I waiting
state.

Holds can be set by the owner, an Operator, or Manager, when a job 
has a dependency, or when a job has its 
.I Execution_Time 
attribute set to a time in the future.  Se the 
.B qhold
man page.

.B Effect of Privilege on Behavior
.br
The following table shows the holds and the privilege required to release each:
.RS 3
Hold  Meaning       Privilege Required to Release
.br
--------------------------------------------------------------
.IP u 6
User          Job owner, Operator, Manager, 
.br
              administrator, root
.IP o 6
Other         Operator, Manager, administrator, root
.IP s 6
System        Manager, administrator, root, 
.br
              PBS (dependency)
.IP n 6
None          Job owner, Operator, Manager, 
.br
              administrator, root
.IP p 6
Bad password  Administrator, root
.RE
.LP

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "(no options)" 8
Defaults to
.I -h u,
removing
.I user
hold.
.IP "-h <hold list>" 8
Types of holds to be released for the job(s).

The
.I hold list
argument is a string consisting of one or more of the letters
.I """u""", """o""", 
or 
.I """s"""
in any combination, or one of the letters
.I """n""" 
or 
.I """p""".

.IP "--version" 8
The 
.B qrls
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH  OPERANDS
The 
.B qrls
command can be used on jobs and job arrays, but not on subjobs or ranges 
of subjobs.  The 
.B qrls 
comand accepts one or more 
.I job IDs
in the form:
.RS 4
.I <sequence number>[.<server name>][@<server name>]
.br
.I <sequence number>[][.<server name>][@<server name>]
.RE
Note that some shells require that you enclose a job array identifier in
double quotes.

.SH STANDARD ERROR
The 
.B qrls 
command writes a diagnostic message to standard error for
each error occurrence.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP Zero 8
Upon successful processing of all operands

.IP "Greater than zero" 8
If the 
.B qrls
command fails to process any operand

.SH SEE ALSO
The
.I PBS Professional User's Guide,
the
.I PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
.br
qsub(1B), qalter(1B), qhold(1B), pbs_alterjob(3B), pbs_holdjob(3B), and
pbs_rlsjob(3B).
