.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\"
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
.\" later version.
.\"
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" Commercial License Information:
.\"
.\" For a copy of the commercial license terms and conditions,
.\" go to: (http://www.pbspro.com/UserArea/agreement.html)
.\" or contact the Altair Legal Department.
.\"
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and
.\" distribute them - whether embedded or bundled with other software -
.\" under a commercial license agreement.
.\"
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™",
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH qstat 1B "23 April 2018" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B qstat 
- display status of PBS jobs, queues, or servers


.SH SYNOPSIS
.RE
.B Displaying Job Status
.RS 7
Default format:
.br
.B qstat 
[-E] [-J] [-p] [-t] [-x] [[<job ID> | <destination>] ...]

.sp
Long format:
.br
.B qstat 
-f [-F json | dsv [-D <delimiter>]] [-E] [-J] [-p] 
[-t] [-w] 
.RS 6
[-x] [[<job ID> | <destination>] ...]
.RE
.sp
Alternate format:
.br
.B qstat 
[-a [-w]| -H | -i | -r ] [-E] [-G | -M] [-J] [-n [-1][-w]]   
.RS 6
[-s [-1][-w]] [-t] [-T [-w]] [-u <user list>] 
.br
[[<job ID> | <destination>] ...]
.RE
.RE

.B Displaying Queue Status
.RS 7
Default format:
.br
.B qstat 
-Q [<destination> ...]
.sp
Long format:
.br
.B qstat 
-Q -f [-F json | dsv [-D <delimiter>]] [-w] [<destination> ...]
.sp
Alternate format:
.br
.B qstat 
-q [-G | -M] [<destination> ...]
.RE

.B Displaying Server Status
.RS 7
Default format:
.br
.B qstat 
-B [<server> ...]
.sp
Long format:
.br
.B qstat 
-B -f [-F json | dsv [-D <delimiter>]] [-w] [<server> ...]

.B Version Information
.br
.B qstat
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B qstat
command displays the status of jobs, queues, or servers, writing
the status information to standard output.
.LP
When displaying job status information, the 
.B qstat 
command displays status information about all specified jobs, job
arrays, and subjobs.  You can specify jobs by ID, or by destination,
for example all jobs at a specified queue or server.

.B Display Formats
.br
You can use particular options to display status information in a
default format, an alternate format, or a long format.  Default and
alternate formats display all status information for a job, queue, or
server with one line per object, in columns.  Long formats display
status information showing all attributes, one attribute to a line.

.B Displaying Information for Finished and Moved Jobs
.br
You can display status information for finished and moved jobs by
using the 
.I -x 
and 
.I -H 
options.

If your job has been moved to another server through peer scheduling,
give the job ID as an argument to 
.B qstat.  
If you do not specify the job ID, your job will not appear to exist.  
For example, your job 123.ServerA is moved to ServerB.  In this case, you can use
.br
.B \ \ \ qstat 123
.br
or
.br
.B \ \ \ qstat 123.ServerA

Specifying the full job name, including the server, avoids the possibility
that 
.B qstat
will report on a job named 123.ServerB that was moved to ServerA.

To list all jobs at ServerB, you can use:
.br
.B \ \ \ qstat @ServerB

.B Required Privilege
.br
Users without Manager or Operator privilege cannot view 
resources or attributes that are invisible to unprivileged users.

.SH DISPLAYING JOB STATUS
.B Job Status in Default Format
.br
Triggers: any of the 
.I -J, -p, -t, 
or 
.I -x
options.

The 
.B qstat 
command displays job status in default format when you specify any 
of the 
.I -J, -p, -t,
or 
.I -x, 
options.
Jobs are displayed one to a line, with these column headers:
.sp
Job id   Name       User      Time Use S Queue   
.br
-------- ---------- --------- -------- - -----
.sp

Description of columns:
.IP "Job id" 10
The job ID assigned by PBS
.IP "Name" 10
Job name specified by submitter
.IP "User" 10
Username of job owner
.IP "Time Use" 10
The CPU time used by the job.  Before the application has actually
started running, for example during stage-in, this field is "0". At
the point where the application starts accumulating cput, this field
changes to "00:00:00".  After that, every time the MoM polls for
resource usage, the field is updated.

The MoM on each execution host polls for the usage of all
processes on her host belonging to the job.  Usage is summed.  The
polling interval is short when a job first starts running and
lengthens to a maximum of 2 minutes.
.LP
.IP "S" 10
The job's state:
.RS 
.IP "B" 3
Array job has at least one subjob running
.IP "E" 3
Job is exiting after having run
.IP "F" 3
Job is finished
.IP "H" 3
Job is held
.IP "M" 3
Job was moved to another server
.IP "Q" 3
Job is queued
.IP "R" 3
Job is running
.IP "S" 3
Job is suspended
.IP "T" 3
Job is being moved to new location
.IP "U" 3
Cycle-harvesting job is suspended due to 
keyboard activity
.IP "W" 3
Job is waiting for its submitter-assigned start 
time to be reached
.IP "X" 3
Subjob has completed execution or has been deleted
.RE
.IP "Queue" 10
The queue in which the job resides
.LP

.B Job Status in Long Format
.br
Trigger: the 
.I -f
option.
.br
If you specify the 
.I -f
(full) option, full job status information for each job is displayed 
in this order:
.RS 5
The job ID
.br
Each job attribute, one to a line
.br
The job's submission arguments 
.br
The job's executable, in JSDL format
.br
The executable's argument list, in JSDL format
.RE

The job attributes are listed 
as 
.I <name> = <value>
pairs. This includes the 
.I exec_host 
and 
.I exec_vnode 
strings.  
The full output can be very large.
.sp

The 
.I exec_host 
string has the format:
.br
.I <host1>/<T1>*<P1>[+<host2>/<T2>*<P2>+...]
.br
where 
.br
.I T1
is the task slot number (the index) of the job on hostA.
.br
.I P1
is the number of processors allocated to the job from host1.  The 
number of processors allocated does not appear if it is 1.

The 
.I exec_vnode 
string has the format:
.br
.I (<vnode1>:ncpus=<N1>:mem=<M1>)[+(<vnode2>:ncpus=<N2>:mem=<M2>)+...]
.br
where
.br
N1 is the number of CPUs allocated to that job on vnode1.
.br
M1 is the amount of memory allocated to that job on vnode1.

.B Job Status in Alternate Format
.br
Triggers: any of the 
.I -a, -i, -G, -H, -M, -n, -r, -s, 
or
.I -u <user list>
options.
.br
The 
.B qstat
command displays job status in the alternate format if you specify any of the
.I -a, -i, -G, -H, -M, -n, -r, -s, 
or 
.I -u <user list>
options.
Jobs are displayed one to a line.  If jobs are running and the -n
option is specified, or if jobs are finished or moved and the -H and
-n options are specified, there is a second line for the 
.I exec_host
string.

.sp
Column headers:

.sp
                                             Req'd  Req'd   Elap
.br
Job ID Username Queue Jobname SessID NDS TSK Memory Time  S Time
.br
------ -------- ----- ------- ------ --- --- ------ ----- - ---- 
.sp

Description of columns:
.sp
.IP "Job ID" 15
The job ID assigned by PBS
.IP "Username" 15
Username of job owner
.IP "Queue" 15
Queue in which the job resides
.IP "Jobname"
Job name specified by submitter
.IP "SessID" 15
Session ID.  Appears only if the job is running.
.IP "NDS" 15
Number of chunks or vnodes requested by the job
.IP "TSK" 15
Number of CPUs requested by the job
.IP "Req'd Memory" 15
Amount of memory requested by the job
.IP "Req'd Time" 15
If CPU time is requested, this shows CPU time.  Otherwise, shows walltime
.IP "S" 15
The job's state.  (See listing above)
.IP "Elap Time" 15
If CPU time is requested, this shows CPU time.  Otherwise, shows walltime

.SH Grouping Jobs and Sorting by ID
Trigger: the 
.I -E 
option.  
.br
You can use the 
.I -E 
option to sort and group jobs in the output of 
.B qstat.  
The 
.I -E 
option groups jobs by server and displays each group by ascending ID.
This option also improves 
.B qstat 
performance.  The following table shows how the 
.I -E 
option affects the behavior of 
.B qstat:
  
.B How qstat is Used \ \  Result Without -E \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \  Result With -E 
.br
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
qstat (no job ID     Queries the default server  No change in behavior; 
.br
specified)           and displays result         same as without 
.I -E
.br
                                                 option
.br
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
qstat <list of job   Displays results in the     Displays results in 
.br
IDs from single      order specified             ascending ID order
.br
server>
.br
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
qstat <job IDs at    Displays results in the     Groups jobs by server.  
.br
multiple servers>    order they are specified    Displays each group in 
.br
                                                 ascending order
.br
-----------------------------------------------------------------------


.SH DISPLAYING QUEUE STATUS
.B Queue Status in Default Format
.br
Trigger: the 
.I -Q
option by itself.
.br
The 
.B qstat
command displays queue status in the default format if 
the only option is
.I -Q.
Queue status is displayed one queue to a line, with these column headers: 

.nf
Queue Max  Tot  Ena  Str Que  Run  Hld  Wat  Trn  Ext  Type
----- ---- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----
.fi

Description of columns:
.IP "Queue" 15
Queue name
.IP "Max" 15
Maximum number of jobs allowed to run concurrently in this queue
.IP "Tot" 15
Total number of jobs in the queue
.IP "Ena" 15
Whether the queue is 
enabled
or 
disabled
.IP "Str" 15
Whether the queue is 
started
or 
stopped
.IP "Que" 15
Number of queued jobs
.IP "Run" 15
Number of running jobs
.IP "Hld" 15
Number of held jobs
.IP "Wat" 15
Number of waiting jobs
.IP "Trn" 15
Number of jobs being moved (transiting)
.IP "Ext" 15
Number of exiting jobs
.IP "Type" 15
Type of queue: execution or routing
.sp

.LP

.B Queue Status in Long Format
.br
Trigger: the 
.I -q
and 
.I -f
options together.
.br
If you specify the
.I -f
(full) option with the 
.I -q
option, full queue status information for each queue is displayed
starting with the queue name, followed by each attribute, one to a line,
as
.I <name> = <value>
pairs.  
.sp

.B Queue Status: Alternate Format
.br
Triggers: any of the 
.I -q, -G, 
or 
.I -M
options.
.br
The
.B qstat
command displays queue status in the alternate format if you 
specify any of the
.I -q, -G,
or 
.I -M
options.
Queue status is displayed one queue to a line, and the lowest line 
contains totals for some columns.

These are the alternate format queue status column headers:

.nf
Queue Memory CPU Time Walltime Node Run Que Lm State
----- ------ -------- -------- ---- --- --- -- -----
.fi

Description of columns:
.IP "Queue" 15
Queue name
.IP "Memory" 15
Maximum amount of memory that can be requested by a job in this queue
.IP "CPU Time" 15
Maximum amount of CPU time that can be requested by a job in this queue
.IP "Walltime" 15
Maximum amount of walltime that can be requested by a job in this queue
.IP "Node" 15
Maximum number of vnodes that can be requested by a job in this queue
.IP "Run" 15
Number of running and suspended jobs.  Lowest row is total number of
running and suspended jobs in all the queues shown
.IP "Que" 15
Number of queued, waiting, and held jobs.  Lowest row is total number 
of queued, waiting, and held jobs in all the queues shown
.IP "Lm" 15
Maximum number of jobs allowed to run concurrently in this queue
.IP "State" 15
State of this queue: 
.I E
(enabled) or 
.I D
(disabled), 
and 
.I R
(running) or 
.I S
(stopped)

.sp


.SH DISPLAYING SERVER STATUS

.B Server Status in Default Format:
.br
Trigger: the 
.I -B 
option.
.br
The 
.B qstat 
command displays server status if the only option given is 
.I -B.
.sp
Column headers for default server status output:

.nf
Server Max Tot Que Run Hld Wat Trn Ext Status
------ --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ------
.fi

Description of columns:
.IP "Server" 15
Name of server
.IP "Max" 15
Maximum number of jobs allowed to be running concurrently 
on the server
.IP "Tot" 15
Total number of jobs currently managed by the server
.IP "Que" 15
Number of queued jobs
.IP "Run" 15
Number of running jobs
.IP "Hld" 15
Number of held jobs
.IP "Wat" 15
Number of waiting jobs
.IP "Trn" 15
Number of transiting jobs
.IP "Ext" 15
Number of exiting jobs
.IP "Status" 15
Status of the server
.RE

.B Server Status in Long Format
.br
Trigger: the
.I -f
option.
.br
If you specify the
.I -f
(full) option, displays full server status information
starting with the server name, followed by each server attribute, 
one to a line, as
.I <name> = <value>
pairs. Includes PBS version information.
.sp

.SH OPTIONS
.B Generic Job Status Options
.IP "-E" 10
Groups jobs by server and displays jobs sorted by ascending ID.  When
.B qstat
is presented with a list of jobs, jobs are grouped by server and each 
group is displayed by ascending ID.  This option also improves 
.B qstat
performance.  
.LP
.B Default Job Status Options
.IP "-J" 10
Prints status information for job arrays (not subjobs).
.IP "-t" 10
Displays status information for jobs, job arrays, and subjobs.
When used with 
.I -J
option, prints status information for subjobs only.

.IP "-p" 10
The 
.I Time Use 
column is replaced with the percentage completed for the job.  For an 
array job this is the percentage of subjobs completed.  For a normal
job, it is the percentage of allocated CPU time used.

.IP "-x" 10
Displays status information for finished and moved jobs in 
addition to queued and running jobs.
.LP

.B Alternate Job Status Options
.IP "-a" 10
All queued and running jobs are displayed.  
If a
.I destination
is specified, information for all jobs at that
.I destination
is displayed.
If a 
.I job ID
is specified, information about that job is displayed.  
Always specify this option before the 
.I -n 
or 
.I -s
options, otherwise they will not take effect.

.IP "-H" 10
Without a job identifier, displays information for all finished or moved jobs.
If a 
.I job ID 
is given, displays information for that job regardless of 
its state.  If a 
.I destination
is specified, displays information for finished or moved jobs, or 
specified job(s), at 
.I destination.

.IP "-i" 10
If a
.I destination
is given, information for queued, held or waiting jobs at that 
.I destination
is displayed.
If a 
.I job ID
is given, information about that job is displayed regardless
of its state. 

.IP "-n" 10
The 
.I exec_host 
string is listed on the line below the basic information.
If the 
.I -1
option is given, the 
.I exec_host 
string is listed on the end of the same line.
If using the 
.I -a 
option, always specify the
.I -n 
option after
.I -a,
otherwise the
.I -n 
option does not take effect.
 
.IP "-r" 10
If a 
.I destination
is given, information for running or suspended jobs at that 
.I destination
is displayed.
If a 
.I job ID
is given, information about that job is displayed regardless of its state.  

.IP "-s" 10
Any comment added by the administrator or scheduler is shown on the line below the basic information.
If the 
.I -1 
option is given, the comment string is listed on the end of the same line.
If using the 
.I -a 
option, always specify the
.I -s 
option after
.I -a,
otherwise the
.I -s 
option does not take effect.

.IP "-T" 10
Displays estimated start time for queued jobs, replacing the 
.I Elap Time
field with the 
.I Est Start Time
field.  Jobs with earlier estimated start
times are displayed before those with later estimated start times. 

Running jobs are displayed before other jobs.  Running jobs are sorted
by their 
.I stime 
attribute (start time).

Queued jobs whose estimated start times are unset
(estimated.start_time = unset) are displayed after those with
estimated start times, with estimated start time shown as a double dash
("--").  Queued jobs with estimated start times in the past are treated
as if their estimated start times are unset.

If a job's estimated start time cannot be calculated, the start time
is shown as a question mark ("?").

Time displayed is local to the qstat command.  Current week begins on
Sunday.

The following table shows the format for the 
.I Est Start Time 
field when the
.I -w 
option is not used:

.IP " " 10
.nf
.B Format\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Job's Estimated Start Time\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Example
-------------------------------------------------------------
<HH>:<MM>      Today                                  15:34
-------------------------------------------------------------
<2-letter      Within 7 days, but after today         We 15
weekday> <HH>
-------------------------------------------------------------
<3-letter      This calendar year, but after this     Feb 
month name>    week
-------------------------------------------------------------
<YYYY>         Less than or equal to 5 years from     2018
               today, after this year
-------------------------------------------------------------
>5yrs          More than 5 years from today           >5yrs
-------------------------------------------------------------
.fi

.IP " " 10
The following table shows the format for the 
.I Est Start Time 
field when the
.I -w 
option is used:
.IP " " 10
.nf
.B Format\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ Job Est Start Time\ \ Example
-------------------------------------------------------------
Today <HH>:<MM>     Today               Today 13:34
-------------------------------------------------------------
<Day> <HH>:<MM>     This week, but      Wed 15:34
                    after today  
-------------------------------------------------------------
<Day> <Month>       This year, but      Wed Feb 10 15:34
<Daynum> <HH>:<MM>  after this week
-------------------------------------------------------------
<Day> <Month>       After this year     Wed Feb 10 2018 15:34
<Daynum> <YYYY>
<HH>:<MM>
-------------------------------------------------------------
.fi

.IP " " 10
When used with the 
.I -f 
option, prints the full timezone-qualified start time.

Estimated start time information can be made unavailable to unprivileged 
users; in this case, the estimated start time appears to be unset.

.IP "-u <user list>" 10
If a 
.I destination
is given, status for jobs at that 
.I destination 
owned by users in 
.I <user list>
is displayed.
If a 
.I job ID
is given, status information for that job is displayed regardless of the job's 
ownership.
.sp
Format: 
.I <username>[@<hostname>][, <username>[@<hostname>], ...] 
in comma-separated list.  

Hostnames may be wildcarded, but not domain names.
When no hostname is specified, username is for any host.

.IP "-w" 10
Allows display of wider fields up to 120 characters.  The 
.I JobID 
column 
can be up to 30 characters wide.  
.I Username, Queue, 
and 
.I Jobname 
can be
up to 15 characters wide.  
.I SessID 
can be up to 8 characters wide
and 
.I NDS 
can be up to 4 characters wide.  
.I TSK 
can be up to 5 characters wide.
.I Req'd Memory
can be 6 characters, 
.I Elap Time
can be 5 characters, and
.I S
can be only 1 character wide.  

Can be used only in conjunction with the 
.I -a, -n, 
or 
.I -s
options.  This 
option is different from the 
.I -w
option used with 
.I -f.

.IP "-1" 10
Reformats 
.B qstat 
output to a single line.  Can be used only in conjunction with the 
.I -n
and/or 
.I -s
options.

.LP
.B Queue Status Options
.IP "-Q" 10
Displays queue status in default format.  
Operands must be 
.I destinations.
.IP "-q" 10
Displays queue status in alternate format.  
Operands must be 
.I destinations.

.LP
.B Server Status Options
.IP "-B" 10
Display server status.
Operands must be names of servers.

.LP
.B Job, Queue, and Server Status Options
.IP "-f [-w]" 10
Full display. Job, queue or server attributes displayed one to a line.
.br
JSON output: PBS reports 
.I resources_used 
values for resources that are created or set in a hook as JSON strings
in the output of 
.B qstat -f.

If MoM returns a JSON object (a Python dictionary), PBS reports the
value as a string in single quotes:  
.br
.I resources_used.<resource_name> = '{ <mom_JSON_item_value>, 
.I <mom_JSON_item_value>, <mom_JSON_item_value>, ..}'
.br
Example:  MoM returns { "a":1, "b":2, "c":1,"d": 4} for 
.I resources_used.foo_str.  
We get: 
.br
resources_used.foo_str='{"a": 1, "b": 2, "c":1,"d": 4}'

If MoM returns a value that is
not a valid JSON object, the value is reported verbatim.
.br
Example: MoM returns "hello"  for 
.I resources_used.foo_str.  
We get:
.br
resources_used.foo_str="hello"

.br
Optional 
.I -w 
prints each attribute on one unbroken line.  Feed characters are converted:
.RS 13
Newline is converted to backslash concatenated with "n", resulting in "\\n"
.br
Form feed is converted to backslash concatenated with "f", resulting in "\\f"
.RE
.RS 10
This 
.I -w 
is independent of the 
.I -w 
job alternate output option.
.RE

.IP "-F dsv [-D <delimiter>]" 10

Prints output in delimiter-separated value format.  The default
.I delimiter 
is a pipe ("|").  You can specify a character or a string
delimiter using the 
.I -D 
argument to the 
.I -F dsv 
option.  For example, to use a comma as the delimeter:
.RS 13
.B qstat -f -F dsv -D,
.RE
.RS 10 
If the delimiter itself appears in a value, it is escaped:
.RS 3
On Linux, the delimiter is escaped with a backslash ("\\").
.br
On Windows, the delimiter is escaped with a caret ("^").
.RE
.RE
.RS 10
.sp
Feed characters are converted:
.RS 3
Newline is converted to backslash concatenated with "n", resulting in "\\n"
.br
Form feed is converted to backslash concatenated with "f", resulting in "\\f"
.RE

A newline separates each job from the next.  Using newline as the
delimiter leads to undefined behavior.

.br
Example of getting output in delimiter-separated value format:
.RS 3
.B qstat -f -Fdsv

Job Id: 1.vbox|Job_Name = STDIN|Job_Owner = root@vbox|job_state = Q|queue = workq|server = vbox|Checkpoint = u|ctime = Fri Nov 11 17:57:05 2016|Error_Path = ...
.RE
.RE

.IP "-F json" 10
Prints output in JSON format (http://www.json.org/).  
Attribute output is preceded by timestamp, PBS version, and PBS server hostname.  
Example: 

.RS 13
.B qstat -F json

{
        "timestamp":1479277336,
        "pbs_version":"14.1",
        "pbs_server":"vbox",
        "Jobs":{
                "1.vbox":{
                        "Job_Name":"STDIN",
                        "Job_Owner":"root@vbox",
                        "job_state":"Q",
...

.RE

.IP "-G" 10
Shows size in gigabytes.  Triggers alternate format.
.IP "-M" 10
Shows size in megawords.  A word is considered to be 8 bytes.  
Triggers alternate format.

.LP

.B Version Information
.IP "--version" 8
The 
.B qstat
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.


.SH  OPERANDS
.B Job Identifier Operands
.br
The 
.I job ID
is assigned by PBS at submission.  
Job IDs are used only with job status requests.
Status information for specified job(s) is displayed.
Formats:
.IP Job 15
.I <sequence number>[.<server>][@<server>]
.IP "Job array" 15
.I <sequence number>[][.<server>][@<server>]
.IP Subjob 15
.I <sequence number>[<index>][.<server>][@<server>]
.IP "Range of subjobs" 15
.I <sequence number>[<start>-<end>][.<server>][@<server>]
.LP
Note that some shells require that you enclose a job array identifier in
double quotes.

.RE
.LP

.B Destination Operands
.br
Name of queue, name of server, or name of queue at a specific server.
Formats:
.IP "queue name" 15
Specifies name of queue for job or queue display.
.RS 18
When displaying job status, PBS displays status for all jobs in the
specified queue at the default server.
.br
When displaying queue status, PBS displays status for the specified
queue at the default server.
.RE
.IP "queue name@server name" 15
Specifies name of queue at server for job or queue display.
.RS 18
When displaying job status, PBS displays status for all jobs in the
specified queue at the specified server.
.br
When displaying queue status, PBS displays status for the specified
queue at the specified server.
.RE
.IP "@server name" 15
Specifies server name for job or queue display.  
.RS 18
When displaying job status, PBS displays status for all jobs at all
queues at the specified server.
.br
When displaying queue status, PBS displays status for all queues at
the specified server.
.RE
.IP "server name" 
Specifies server name for server display.
.RS 18
When displaying server status (with the -B option) PBS displays status
for the specified server.
.RE
.LP

.SH STANDARD ERROR
The 
.B qstat 
command writes a diagnostic message to standard error for
each error occurrence.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP Zero 15
Upon successful processing of all operands
.IP "Greater than zero" 15
If any operands could not be processed

.SH SEE ALSO
The
.I PBS Professional User's Guide,
the
.I PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
.br
qalter(1B), qsub(1B), pbs_alterjob(3B), pbs_statjob(3B), pbs_statque(3B),
pbs_statserver(3B), pbs_submit(3B),
pbs_job_attributes(7B), pbs_queue_attributes(7B), pbs_server_attributes(7B),
pbs_resources(7B) 
