.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2016 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_sched_attributes 7B "28 January 2016" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
pbs_sched_attributes - PBS scheduler attributes
.SH DESCRIPTION
Scheduler attributes.

.LP

.SH Settable Scheduler Attributes
.LP
The following scheduler attributes are readable by all and settable by
the PBS Manager and Operator only.

.IP do_not_span_psets
Specifies whether or not the scheduler requires the job to fit within
one existing placement set.
.br
When this attribute is True, the job must fit in one existing
placement set.  All existing placement sets are checked.  If the job
fits in an occupied placement set, the job waits for the placement set
to be available.  If the job cannot fit within a single placement set,
it won't run.
.br
When this attribute is False, the scheduler first attempts to place
the job in a single placement set, but if it cannot, it allows the job
to span placement sets, running on whichever vnodes can satisfy the
job's resource request.
.br
Format: Boolean
.br
Default: False

.IP job_sort_formula_threshold
Lower bound for calculated priority for job.  If job priority is at 
or below this value, the job is not eligible to run in the current
scheduler cycle.  Settable by Manager.  
.br
Format: float.  
.br
Default: none.  

.IP opt_backfill_fuzzy
Sets the tradeoff between scheduling cycle speed and granularity of 
estimated start time calculation.  
.br
Valid values: 
.RS 10
.IP off
Finest granularity; no speedup.
.IP low
Fairly fine granularity; some speedup.
.IP medium
Medium granularity; medium speedup.
.IP high
Coarse granularity; greatest speedup.
.RE
.IP
.br
Format: string.  
.br 
Default: unset (behaves like 
.I low
).

.IP sched_cycle_length
The scheduler's maximum cycle length.  
Overwritten by the 
.I -a
option to the
.I pbs_sched
command.
.br
Format: Duration, expressed as integer seconds, or 
[[hours:]minutes:]seconds[.milliseconds]
.br
Default: 20:00 (20 minutes)

.IP sched_preempt_enforce_resumption
Controls whether the scheduler treats preempted jobs as top jobs.  When 
.I True
, these are top jobs.  Settable by Manager.
.br 
Format: Boolean
.br
Default: False

.IP throughput_mode
When True, allows scheduler to run faster; it doesn't have to wait for each job
to be accepted, and doesn't wait for execjob_begin hooks to finish.
Also when this attribute is True, jobs that are changed via qalter, server_dyn_res
scripts, and peering can run in the same scheduler cycle in which they 
were changed.
.br
Format: Boolean
.br
Default: True

.LP 
.SH Read Only Scheduler Attributes 
.LP 
The following scheduler
attributes are visible only to the PBS Manager or Operator, and are
read-only.

.RS .25i
.IP pbs_version
The version of PBS for this scheduler.  Available only to Manager/Operator.
.IP sched_host
The hostname of the machine on which the scheduler runs. 
Available only to Manager/Operator.

.SH SEE ALSO
The 
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide, 
The 
.B PBS Professional User's Guide, 
qmgr(1B)
