.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2016 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH pbs_python 1B "2 March 2015" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B pbs_python 
\- Python interpreter for debugging a hook script from the command line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pbs_python
--hook  [-e <log_event_mask>] [-i <event file>] 
.RS 11
[-L <log_dir>] [-l <log_file>] [-o <output_file>] 
.br
[-r <resourcedef_file>] [-s <site data file>] [<python_script>]
.RE
.B pbs_python
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
The PBS Python interpreter is a wrapper for Python.  
You can use the PBS Python interpreter for debugging a hook script at
the command line by specifying the 
.I --hook 
option. You can use the
.I --hook 
option to get access to the PBS Python module and perform 
interactive or non-interactive debugging.

Without the 
.I --hook
option, you can use 
.B pbs_python 
to run the Python interpreter that is distributed with PBS Professional.

.SH Debugging
You can get each hook to write out debugging files, and then modify the files
and use them as debugging input to
.B pbs_python.  
Alternatively, you can write them yourself.  

A hook can write an event file
containing the values that populate the pbs.event() objects in the hook, 
a site data file containing the values that populate the pbs.server() objects, 
and a hook execution record listing what the hook changed and whether the 
hook accepted or rejected the event.  To use these files as debugging input,
you can pass the event file to 
.B pbs_python 
using the 
.I -i
option, and you can pass the site data file to 
.B pbs_python
using the 
.I -s 
option.
For details about debugging hooks, see the Hooks chapter in the PBS
Professional Administrator's Guide.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--hook" 6
This option is a switch.  When you use this option, you can use the
PBS Python module (via "import pbs"), and the other options described
here are available.  When you use this option, you cannot use the
standard Python options.  This option is useful for debugging.  

When you do not use this option, you cannot use
the other options listed here, but you can use the standard 
Python options.

.IP "-i <event file>" 6
Text file containing data to populate pbs.event() objects.  
This file is for debugging 
and is written by a hook or by the administrator.  

Each line
specifies an attribute value or a resource value.  Syntax of each
input line is one of the following:
.RS 10
<object_name>.<attribute_name>=<attribute_value>
.br
<object_name>.<resource_list>[<resource_name>]=<resource_value>
.RE
.IP
Where
.RS 10
<object_name> is a PBS object name which can refer to its sub objects.  Examples:  
"pbs.event()", "pbs.event().job", "pbs.event().vnode_list["<vnode name>"]".
.RE
.IP
Example input file:
.RS 10
.br
pbs.event().hook_name=proto
.br
pbs.event().hook_type=site
.br
pbs.event().type=queuejob
.br
pbs.event().requestor=user1
.br
pbs.event().requestor_host=host1
.br
pbs.event().hook_alarm=40
.br
pbs.event().job.id=72
.br
pbs.event().job.Job_Name=job1
.br
pbs.event().job.Resource_List[ncpus]=5
.br
pbs.event().job.Resource_List[mem]=6mb
.br
pbs.event().vnode_list["host1"].resources_available["ncpus"] = 5
.br
pbs.event().vnode_list["host1"].resources_available["mem"] = 300gb
.RE

.IP
Available only when 
.I --hook 
option is used.

.IP "-e <log_event_mask>" 6
Sets the mask that determines which event types are logged by
.B pbs_python. 
To see only debug messages, set the value to 0xd80. To
see all messages, set the value to 0xffff.
.br
The 
.B pbs_python 
interpreter uses the same set of mask values that are
used for the $logevent <mask> entry in the pbs_mom configuration file.
See the pbs_mom.8B man page.  Available only when 
.I --hook 
option is used.

.IP "-L <log_dir>" 6
Directory holding the log file where pbs.logmsg() and pbs.logjobmsg()
write their output.  Default is current working directory where 
.B pbs_python
is executed.
Available only when 
.I --hook 
option is used.

.IP "-l <log_file>" 6
Log file where pbs.logmsg() and pbs.logjobmsg() write their output.
Default file name is current date in 
.I yyyymmdd 
format.
Available only when 
.I --hook 
option is used.

.IP "-o <output_file>" 6
The output file contains the changes made after executing the hook
script, such as the attributes and resources set in any pbs.event()
jobs and reservations, whether to accept or reject an action, and any
pbs.reject() messages.
.br
Example output file:
.RS 10
.br
pbs.event().job.Job_Name=job2
.br
pbs.event().job.Resource_List[file]=60gb
.br
pbs.event().job.Resource_List[ncpus]=5
.br
pbs.event().job.Resource_List[mem]=20gb
.br
pbs.event().job.Account_Name=account2
.br
pbs.event().reject=True
.br
pbs.event().reject_msg=No way! 
.RE

.IP 
Without this option, output goes to stdout.

.IP
Available only when 
.I --hook 
option is used.

.IP "-r <resourcedef>" 6
File/path name containing a resource definition specifying a custom
resource whose Python type is pbs.resource.
.br 
Format: 
.br
.I <resource_name>type=<typename> [flag=<value>]
.br
This file has the same format as the PBS_HOME/server_priv/resourcedef
file.  Available only when 
.I --hook 
option is used.

.IP "-s <site data file>" 6
The site data file can contain any relevant information about the
server, queues, vnodes, and jobs at the server.  This file is for debugging 
and is written by a hook or by the administrator.  
.br
When the hook writes it, this file contains the values that populate
the server, queues, vnodes, reservations, and jobs, with all
attributes and resources for which there are values.
.br 
The site data file is named 
.I hook_<event type>_<hook name>_<random integer>.data.  
Available only when 
.I --hook 
option is used.

.IP "--version" 6
The 
.B pbs_python 
command prints its version information and exits.  This option
can only be used alone.  

.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "<python_script>" 6
The hook script to execute.
We recommend importing the PBS Python module at the start of the script:
.br
import pbs
.br
If you do not specify <python script>, you can perform interactive
debugging.  If you type the following:
.br
1800d44bs_python --hook -i hook.input
.br
The interpreter displays a prompt:
.br
>>
.br
You can type your Python lines at the prompt:
.br
>>import pbs
.br
  >> e=pbs.event().job
.br
         >> print e.id
.br
    <job-id>
.br
    ...
.br

