.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2016 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH qalter 1B "2 February 2016" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B qalter 
\- alter PBS job


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qalter 
[-a date_time] [-A account_string] [-c interval] 
.RS 7
[-e path] 
[-h hold_list] [-j join] [-k keep] [-l resource_list]
[-m mail_events] [-M user_list] [-N name] [-o path] 
[-p priority] [-P project] [-r c] [-S path] [-u user_list] 
[-W additional_attributes] 
job_identifier_list
.RE

.B qalter
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B qalter 
command is used to alter one or more PBS batch jobs.
The attributes listed with the options to the 
.B qalter
command can be modified.  If any of the modifications to a job fails, 
none of the job's attributes is modified.

.B Required Privilege
.br
A non-privileged user may only lower the limits for resources and the
.I run_count
attribute.
A Manager or Operator may lower or raise resource limits, except for 
per-process limits such as pcput and pmem, because these are set when 
the process starts, and enforced by the kernel.
The 
.B qalter
command cannot be used by a non-privileged user to alter a custom resource 
which has been created to be invisible or read-only for users.

.B Modifying resources and job placement
.br
If a job is running, the only resources that can be modified are
.I cputime 
and 
.I walltime.
.LP

If a job is queued, any resource mentioned in the options to the
.B qalter
command can be modified, but
requested modifications must fit within the 
limits set at the server and queue for the amount of each resource
allocated for queued jobs.  If a requested modification does 
not fit within these limits, the modification is rejected.

Note that a job's resource request must fit within the queue's and
server's resource run limits.  If a modification to a resource exceeds
the amount of the resource allowed by the queue or server to be used
by running jobs, the job is never run.

Resources are modified
by using the 
.I -l
option, either in
.I chunks 
inside of 
.I selection statements,
or in job-wide modifications using
.I resource_name=value
pairs.
The 
.I selection statement 
is of the form:
.IP
.I -l select=[N:]chunk[+[N:]chunk ...]
.LP
where 
.I N
specifies how many of that chunk, and 
a 
.I chunk 
is of the form:
.IP
.I resource_name=value[:resource_name=value ...]
.LP
Job-wide 
.I resource_name=value 
modifications are of the form:
.IP
.I -l resource_name=value[,resource_name=value ...]
.LP
Placement of jobs on nodes is changed using the
.I place 
statement:
.IP
.I -l place=modifier[:modifier]
.LP
where
.I modifier
is any combination of the following:
.I group, 
one of 
.I excl|exclhost|shared,
and one of
.I free|pack|scatter|vscatter.

For more on resource requests, usage limits and job placement, see
.B pbs_resources(7B).

.B Modifying attributes
.br
The user alters job attributes by giving options to the 
.B qalter 
command.  Each
.B qalter 
option changes a job attribute.  See the
.B PBS Professional User's Guide
and 
.B pbs_job_attributes(7B).

The behavior of the 
.B qalter 
command may be affected by 
any site hooks.  Site hooks can modify the job's attributes, 
change its routing, etc.

A job that is in the process of provisioning cannot be altered.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-a date_time" 8
Changes the point in time after which the job is eligible for execution.
Given in pairs of digits.  Sets job's 
.I Execution_Time
attribute to 
.I date_time.
Format:
.RS 13
.I "[[[[CC]YY]MM]DD]hhmm[.SS]"
.RE
.IP
where CC is the century,
YY is the year, 
MM is the month,
DD is the day of the month, 
hh is the hour, mm is the minute,
and SS is the seconds.

Each portion of the date defaults to the current date, as long as the 
next-smaller portion is in the future.  For example, if today is the
3rd of the month and the specified day 
.I DD 
is the 5th, the month 
.I MM
will be set to the current month.

If a specified portion has already passed, the next-larger portion will be set
to one after the current date.  For example, if the day
.I DD
is not specified, but the hour 
.I hh 
is specified to be 10:00 a.m. and the current time is 11:00 a.m., 
the day 
.I DD
will be set to tomorrow.

The job's 
.I Execution_Time
attribute can be altered after the job has begun execution, in which
case it will not take effect until the job is rerun.

.IP "-A account_string" 8
Replaces the accounting string associated with the job.  Used for labeling accounting data.
Sets job's 
.I Account_Name 
attribute to 
.I account_string.
Format: string.

This attribute cannot be altered once the job has begun execution.

.IP "-c checkpoint_spec"
Changes when the job will be checkpointed.  Sets job's 
.I Checkpoint
attribute.  An 
.I $action
script is required to checkpoint the job.  See the 
.B pbs_mom(8B)
man page.  
This attribute can be altered after the job has begun execution, 
in which case the new value will not take effect until the
job is rerun.
.IP
The argument 
.I checkpoint_spec
can take on one of the following values:
.RS
.IP c 5
Checkpointing is to be performed according to the interval, measured
in CPU time, set on the execution queue in which the job resides.
If there is no interval set on the queue, the job is not checkpointed.
.IP "c=<minutes of CPU time>" 5
Checkpointing is to be performed at intervals of the specified number
of minutes of CPU time used by the job.  This value must be greater
than zero.  If the interval specified is less that that set on the
execution queue in which the job resides, the queue's interval is
used.
.br
Format: integer.  
.IP w 5
Checkpointing is to be performed according to the interval, measured
in walltime, set on the execution queue in which the job resides. 
If there is no interval set on the queue, the job is not checkpointed.

.IP "w=<minutes of walltime>" 5
Checkpointing is to be performed at intervals of the specified number
of minutes of walltime used by the job.  This value must be greater
than zero.  If the interval specified is less than that set on the
execution queue in which the job resides, the queue's interval is
used.
.br
Format: integer.  
.IP n 5
No checkpointing is to be performed.
.IP s 5
Checkpointing is to be performed only when the server is shut down.

.IP u 5
Unset.  Defaults to behavior when 
.I interval
argument is set to 
.I s.
.I 
.LP
Default: 
.I u.
.br
Format: String.
.RE
.RE

.IP "-e path" 8
Replaces the path to be used for the job's standard error stream.
Sets job's 
.I Error_Path 
attribute to 
.I path.
The
.I path
argument is of the form:
.RS 13
.I [hostname:]path_name
.RE
.RS
The 
.I path 
will be interpreted as follows:

.IP path_name 5
If
.I path_name 
is a relative path, then it is taken to be relative to 
the current working directory of the 
.B qalter
command, where it is executing 
on the current host.

If
.I path_name
is an absolute path, then it is taken to be an absolute path on 
the current host where the 
.B qalter
command is executing.

.IP hostname:path_name
If 
.I path_name
is a relative path, then it is taken to be relative to the user's 
home directory on the host named
.I hostname.

If 
.I path_name 
is an absolute path, then it is the absolute path on the host named
.I hostname.
.LP
If 
.I path_name
does not include a filename, the default filename will be 
.RS 
jobid.ER
.RE
If the
.I -e
option is not specified, the default filename for the standard error stream
is used.  It has this form:
.RS 
.I job_name.esequence_number
.RE

This attribute can be altered after the job has begun execution, 
in which case the new value will not take effect until the
job is rerun.

If you use a UNC path, the hostname is optional.  If you use a non-UNC 
path, the hostname is required.
.RE

.IP "-h hold_list" 8
Updates the job's hold list.
Adds 
.I hold_list
to the job's 
.I Hold_Types 
attribute.
The 
.I hold_list
is a string of one or more of the following:
.RS
.IP u 5
Add a USER hold.
.IP o 5
Add OTHER hold.  Requires operator privilege.
.IP n 5
Clear the holds for which the user has privilege.
.LP
This attribute can be altered after the job has begun execution, 
in which case the new value will not take effect until the
job is rerun.
.RE

.IP "-j join" 8
Changes whether and how to join the job's standard error 
and standard output streams.
Sets job's 
.I Join_Path
attribute to 
.I join.
Default: not merged.  
Possible values of 
.I join:
.RS
.IP oe 5
Standard error and standard output are merged into standard output.
.IP eo 5
Standard error and standard output are merged into standard error.
.IP n 5
Standard error and standard output are not merged.
.LP
This attribute can be altered after the job has begun execution, 
in which case the new value will not take effect until the
job is rerun.
.RE

.IP "-k keep" 8
Changes whether and which of the standard output and standard error streams
will be retained on the execution host.  Overrides default path names for these
streams.  Sets the job's 
.I Keep_Files 
attribute to 
.I keep.
Default: neither is retained.  
This attribute cannot be altered once the job has begun execution.

In the case where output and/or error is retained on the execution host in
a job-specific staging and execution directory created by PBS, these
files are deleted when PBS deletes the directory.

The 
.I keep 
argument can take on the following values:
.RS
.IP e 5
The standard error stream is retained on the execution host, in the 
job's staging and execution directory.  The filename will be:
.RS
.RS 5
job_name.e<sequence number>
.RE
.RE
.IP o  5
The standard output stream is retained on the execution host, in the 
job's staging and execution directory.  The filename will be:
.RS
.RS 5
job_name.o<sequence number>
.RE
.RE

.IP "eo, oe"  5
Both standard output and standard error streams are 
retained on the execution host, in the job's staging 
and execution directory.
.IP n  5
Neither stream is retained.
.RE

.IP "-l resource_arg" 8
.RS
Allows the user to change requested resources and job
placement.  Sets job's 
.I Resource_list 
attribute to 
.I resource_arg.
Uses resource request syntax.
Requesting a resource places a limit on its usage.
Users without manager or operator privilege cannot alter a custom 
resource which was created to be invisible or read-only for users.

Requesting resources in 
.I chunks:
.RS 4
.I -l select=[N:]chunk[+[N:]chunk ...]
.br
where N specifies how many of that chunk, and a chunk is:
.RS 4
.I resource_name=value[:resource_name=value ...]
.RE
.RE
Requesting job-wide resources:
.RS 4
.I -l resource_name=value[,resource_name=value ...]
.RE
The place statement can contain the following elements, in any order:
.RS 4
-l place=[
.I arrangement
][:
.I sharing
][:
.I grouping
]
where
.RS 4
.I arrangement 
is one of 
.I free
|
.I pack
|
.I scatter
| 
.I vscatter
.br
.I sharing
is one of 
.I excl 
| 
.I shared 
|
.I exclhost
.br
.I grouping 
can have only one instance of 
.I group=resource
.RE
and where
.RS 4
.I free:
Place job on any vnode(s).
.br
.I pack:
All chunks will be taken from one host.
.br
.I scatter:
Only one chunk with any MPI processes will be taken from a host.
A chunk with no MPI processes may be taken from the same node as
another chunk.
.br
.I vscatter:
Only one chunk is taken from any vnode.
.br
.I excl:
Only this job uses the vnodes chosen.
.br
.I exclhost:
The entire host is allocated to the job.
.br
.I shared:
This job can share the vnodes chosen.
.br
.I group=resource:
Chunks will be grouped according to a 
.I resource.  
All nodes in the group must have a common value for the 
.I resource, 
which can be either the built-in resource
.I host
or a site-defined node-level resource.

The place statement cannot begin with a colon.

.RE
.RE
If a requested modification to a resource would exceed the 
job's queue's limits, the resource request will be rejected.
For a running job, resources may only be reduced.  Which resources
can be altered is system-dependent.

If the job was submitted with an explicit "-l select=", then node
level resources must be qaltered using the "-l select=" form.  In this
case a node level resource RES cannot be qaltered with the "-l RES"
form.

For example: 
.RS
Submit the job:
.br
% qsub -l select=1:ncpus=2:mem=512mb jobscript
.br
Job's ID is 230

qalter the job using "-l RES" form:
.br
% qalter -l ncpus=4 230
.br

Error reported by qalter:
.br
qalter: Resource must only appear in "select" specification 
when select is used: ncpus 230
.br

qalter the job using the "-l select=" form:
.br
% qalter -l select=1:ncpus=4:mem=512mb 230
.br

No error reported by qalter:
.br
%
.RE

For more on resource requests, usage limits and job placement, see
.B pbs_resources(7B).
.RE

.IP "-m mail_events " 8
Changes the set of conditions under which mail about the job is sent.
Format: string.  Default value: "a".  Sets job's 
.I Mail_Points
attribute to 
.I mail_events.  
The 
.I mail_events
argument can be either "n" or any combination of "a", "b", and "e".
.RS
.IP n 5
No mail will be sent.  
.IP
.IP a 5
Mail is sent when the job is aborted by the batch system.
.IP b 5
Mail is sent when the job begins execution.
.IP e 5
Mail is sent when the job terminates.
.RE
.IP "-M user_list" 8
Alters list of users to whom mail about the job is sent.  Sets job's 
.I Mail_Users 
attribute to 
.I user_list.  
Default: job owner.
.RS
The
.I user_list
argument is of the form:
.RS 5
.I user[@host][,user[@host],...]
.RE
.RE
.IP "-N name " 8
Renames the job.
Sets job's 
.I Job_Name
attribute to 
.I name.
Format: string, up to 236 characters in length.
It must consist of an alphabetic character followed by printable, non-white-space characters.
Default: if a script is used to submit the job, the job's name is the name of the script.  
If no script is used, the job's name is "STDIN". 

.IP "-o path" 8
Alters path to be used for the job's standard output stream.
Sets job's 
.I Output_Path 
attribute to 
.I path.
The
.I path
argument is of the form:
.RS 13
.I [hostname:]path_name
.RE
.RS
The 
.I path 
will be interpreted as follows:

.IP path_name 5
If
.I path_name 
is a relative path, then it is taken to be relative to 
the current working directory of the command, where it is executing 
on the current host.

If
.I path_name
is an absolute path, then it is taken to be an absolute path on 
the current host where the command is executing.

.IP hostname:path_name
If 
.I path_name
is a relative path, then it is taken to be relative to the user's 
home directory on the host named
.I hostname.

If 
.I path_name 
is an absolute path, then it is the absolute path on the host named
.I hostname.
.LP
If 
.I path_name
does not include a filename, the default filename will be 
.RS 
jobid.OU
.RE

If the
.I -o
option is not specified, the default filename for the standard output stream
is used.  It has this form:
.RS 
.I job_name.osequence_number
.RE
This attribute can be altered after the job has begun execution, 
in which case the new value will not take effect until the
job is rerun.

If you use a UNC path, the hostname is optional.  If you use a non-UNC
path, the hostname is required.
.RE
.IP "-p priority" 8
Alters priority of the job.  Format: host-dependent integer.
Default: zero.  Range: [-1024, +1023] inclusive.  Sets job's 
.I Priority
attribute to 
.I priority.

This attribute can be altered after the job has begun execution, 
in which case the new value will not take effect until the
job is rerun.

.IP "-P project" 8

Specifies a project for the job. Sets job's 
.I project
attribute to specified value.

Format: String.
.br
Project name can contain any characters except for the following:
Slash ("/"), left bracket ("["), right bracket ("]"), double quote ("""), 
semicolon (";"), colon (":"), vertical bar ("|"), left angle bracket ("<"), 
right angle bracket (">"), plus ("+"), comma (","), question mark ("?"), 
and asterisk ("*").
.br
Default value: "_pbs_project_default".

.IP "-r y|n" 8
Changes whether the job is rerunnable.  This setting does not affect
how the job is handled in the case where the job was unable to begin
execution.
See the
.B qrerun(1B)
command.  Default: "y".  Sets job's 
.I Rerunable
attribute to the argument.
Format: single character, "y" or "n".
.RS
.IP y 5
Job is rerunnable.
.IP n 5
Job is not rerunnable.
.RE

.IP "-S path_list" 8
Specifies the interpreter or shell path for the job script.  Sets job's 
.I Shell_Path_List 
attribute to 
.I path_list.
Default: user's login shell on execution node.
The 
.I path_list
argument is the full path to the interpreter or shell including the 
executable name.  Format:
.RS
.IP
.I path[@host][,path@host ...]
.LP
Only one path may be specified without a host name.
Only one path may be specified per named host.  The path selected
is the one whose host name is that of the server on which the job
resides.  

This attribute can be altered after the job has begun execution, 
in which case the new value will not take effect until the
job is rerun.

Example of using bash via a directive:
.IP
#PBS -S /bin/bash@mars,/usr/bin/bash@jupiter
.LP
Example of using a Python script from the command line on UNIX/Linux: 
.IP
qsub -S $PBS_EXEC/bin/pbs_python <script name>
.LP
Example of using a Python script from the command line on Windows: 
.IP
qsub -S \%PBS_EXEC\%\\bin\\pbs_python.exe <script name>
.LP
If the path contains spaces, it must be quoted, for example:
.IP
qsub -S "C:\Program Files\\PBS Pro\\bin\\pbs_python.exe" <script name>
.LP

.RE
.IP 
.IP "-u user_list" 8
Alters list of usernames.  Job will be run under a username from this list.
Sets job's 
.I User_List 
attribute to 
.I user_list.
Default: job owner (username on submit host.)  Format of
.I user_list: 
.RS
.IP 
.I user[@host][,user@host ...]
.LP
Only one username may be specified without a host name.
Only one username may be specified per named host.  
The server on which the job resides will select first the username whose
host name is the same as the server name.  Failing that, 
the next selection will be the username with no specified hostname.
The usernames on the server and execution hosts must be the same.
The job owner must have authorization to run as the specified user.

This attribute cannot be altered once the job has begun execution.
.RE

.IP "-W additional_attributes" 8
The -W option allows change in specification of additional job attributes.
Format:
.RS
.IP
.I -W attribute_name=value[,attribute_name=value...]
.LP
If white space occurs within the 
.I additional_attributes
argument, or the equal sign "=" occurs within an 
.I attribute_value
string, then that must be enclosed with single- or double-quotes.
PBS supports the following attributes within the -W option:

.I "depend=dependency_list"
.IP
Defines dependencies between this and other jobs.  
Sets the job's
.I depend
attribute to 
.I dependency_list.
The 
.I dependency_list
has the form:
.RS
.RS 5
.I type:arg_list[,type:arg_list ...]
.RE
where except for the 
.I on
type, 
the
.I arg_list
is one or more PBS job IDs in the form:
.RS 5
.I jobid[:jobid ...]
.RE
The 
.I type 
can be:

.IP " after: arg_list" 4
This job may be scheduled for execution at any point after all jobs
in 
.I arg_list
have started execution.

.IP " afterok: arg_list" 4
This job may be scheduled for execution only after all jobs in
.I arg_list
have terminated with no errors.
See "Warning about exit status with csh" in 
.B EXIT STATUS.

.IP " afternotok: arg_list" 4
This job may be scheduled for execution only after all jobs in 
.I arg_list
have terminated with errors.
See "Warning about exit status with csh" in 
.B EXIT STATUS.

.IP " afterany: arg_list" 4
This job may be scheduled for execution after all jobs in
.I arg_list
have finished execution, with any exit status (with or without errors.)
This job will not run if a job in the 
.I arg_list 
was deleted without ever having been run.

.IP " before: arg_list"  4
Jobs in 
.I arg_list 
may begin execution once this job has begun execution.

.IP  " beforeok: arg_list " 4
Jobs in 
.I arg_list
may begin execution once this job terminates without errors.
See "Warning about exit status with csh" in 
.B EXIT STATUS.

.IP " beforenotok: arg_list"  4
If this job terminates execution with errors, then jobs in 
.I arg_list
may begin.
See "Warning about exit status with csh" in 
.B EXIT STATUS.

.IP " beforeany: arg_list"  4
Jobs in 
.I arg_list
may begin execution once this job terminates execution,
with or without errors.

.IP " on: count " 4
This job may be scheduled for execution after
.I count
dependencies on
other jobs have been satisfied.  This type is used in conjunction
with one of the 
.I before
types listed.
Count is an integer greater than 0.
.LP

Job IDs in the
.I arg_list 
of 
.I before 
types must have been submitted with a 
.I type 
of 
.I on.

To use the 
.I before types,
the user must have the authority to alter the jobs in 
.I arg_list.
Otherwise, the dependency is rejected and the new job aborted.

Error processing of the existence, state, or condition of the job on which the
newly submitted job is a deferred service, i.e. the check is performed after
the job is queued.  If an error is detected, the new job will be deleted by
the server.  Mail will be sent to the job submitter stating the error.

Dependency examples:
.br
qalter -W depend=afterok:123.host1.domain.com /tmp/script
.br
qalter -W depend=before:234.host1.com:235.host1.com /tmp/script
.RE

.I "group_list=g_list"
.IP
Alters list of group names.  Job will be run under a group name from this list.
Sets job's
.I group_List
attribute to
.I g_list.
Default: login group name of job owner.  Format of
.I g_list:
.RS 
.IP
group[@host][,group@host ...]
.LP
Only one group name may be specified without a host name.
Only one group name may be specified per named host.
The server on which the job resides will select first the group name whose
host name is the same as the server name.  Failing that,
the next selection will be the group name with no specified hostname.
The group names on the server and execution hosts must be the same.
.RE

.I "run_count=<value>"
.IP
Sets the number of times the server thinks it has run the job.  Sets the value of
the job's 
.I run_count
attribute.  Job is held when the value of this attribute goes over 20.
Can be set while job is running.
.br
Format: integer greater than or equal to zero.
.LP

.I "sandbox=<value>"
.IP
Changes which directory PBS uses for the job's staging and execution.
If
.I value
is 
.I PRIVATE
, PBS creates a job-specific directory for staging and execution.
If 
.I value
is 
.I HOME 
or is unset, PBS uses the user's home directory for staging and execution.
.LP

.I "stagein=path_list"
.br
.I "stageout=path_list"
.IP
Changes files or directories to be staged-in before execution or staged-out
after execution is complete.  Sets the job's 
.I stagein
and 
.I stageout
attributes to the specified
.I path_lists.
On completion of the job, all staged-in and staged-out files and directories
are removed from the execution host(s).  The
.I path_list
has the form:
.RS
.IP
.I filespec[,filespec]
.LP
where 
.I filespec 
is 
.IP
.I local_path@hostname:remote_path
.LP
regardless of the direction of the copy.
The name
.I local_path 
is the name of the file or directory on the primary execution host.
It can be relative to the staging and execution directory on the
execution host, or it can be an absolute path.

The "@" character separates local_path from remote_path.

The name
.I remote_path
is the path on 
.I hostname. 
The name can be relative to the staging and execution directory on the
primary execution host, or it can be an absolute path.

If 
.I path_list
has more than one 
.I filespec,
i.e. it contains commas, it must be enclosed in double-quotes.

If you use a UNC path, the hostname is optional.  If you use a non-UNC 
path, the hostname is required.
.RE
.LP

.I "umask=NNNN"
.IP
Alters the umask with which the job will be started.  Default value: 077.
Can be used with one to four digits; typically two.
Sets job's 
.I umask
attribute to 
.I NNNN.
Controls umask of job's standard output and standard error.
Example:  
.I -W umask=33
allows group and world read on the job's output.
.LP
.RE

.IP "--version" 8
The 
.B qalter
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.
.LP


.SH  OPERANDS
The 
.B qalter 
command accepts a 
.I job_identifier_list
as its operand.
The 
.I job_identifier_list
is one or more jobids for normal jobs or array jobs.  
Individual subjobs of an array job are not alterable.
For a job, this is:
.IP
.I sequence_number[.server_name][@server]
.LP
and for an array job, it is:
.IP
.I sequence_number[][.server_name][@server]
.LP

Note that some shells require that you enclose a job array ID 
in double quotes.

.SH STANDARD ERROR
The
.B qalter
command will write a diagnostic message to standard error for
each error occurrence.

.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero upon successful processing of input.
Exit value will be greater than zero upon failure of 
.B qalter.

Warning about exit status with csh:
.br
If a job is run in csh and a .logout file
exists in the home directory in which the job executes, the exit status
of the job is that of the .logout script, not the job script.  This may
impact any inter-job dependencies.  


.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional User's Guide,
the
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
.br
pbs_job_attributes(7B),
pbs_resources(7B),
qdel(1B), 
qhold(1B), 
qmove(1B), 
qmsg(1B), 
qrerun(1B),
qrls(1B), 
qselect(1B), 
qstat(1B),
qsub(1B)
