.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2016 Altair Engineering, Inc.
.\" For more information, contact Altair at www.altair.com.
.\"  
.\" This file is part of the PBS Professional ("PBS Pro") software.
.\" 
.\" Open Source License Information:
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
.\" terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free 
.\" Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
.\" later version.
.\"  
.\" PBS Pro is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY 
.\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
.\"  
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along 
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"  
.\" Commercial License Information: 
.\" 
.\" The PBS Pro software is licensed under the terms of the GNU Affero General 
.\" Public License agreement ("AGPL"), except where a separate commercial license 
.\" agreement for PBS Pro version 14 or later has been executed in writing with Altair.
.\"  
.\" Altair’s dual-license business model allows companies, individuals, and 
.\" organizations to create proprietary derivative works of PBS Pro and distribute 
.\" them - whether embedded or bundled with other software - under a commercial 
.\" license agreement.
.\" 
.\" Use of Altair’s trademarks, including but not limited to "PBS™", 
.\" "PBS Professional®", and "PBS Pro™" and Altair’s logos is subject to Altair's 
.\" trademark licensing policies.
.\"
.TH qselect 1B "2 February 2016" Local "PBS Professional"
.SH NAME
.B qselect 
\- select PBS batch jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qselect
[-a [op]date_time] [-A account_string] 
.RS 8
[-c [op]interval]
[-h hold_list] [-H] [-J] [-l resource_list] [-N name] 
[-p [op] priority] [-P project] [-q destination] [-r rerun] 
[-s states] [-t suboption [comparison] specified-time] 
[-T] [-u user_list] [-x]
.RE
.br
.B qselect
--version

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B qselect
command lists those jobs that meet the specified selection criteria.
Jobs are selected from a single server.
.LP
Each option acts as a filter restricting which jobs are listed.
With no options, the 
.B qselect
command will list all jobs at the server which the user is authorized
to list (query status of).
.LP
When selecting jobs according to their requested resources, this command
can be used only on resources in the 
.I Resource_List 
job attribute (where any chunk-level resources have been summed), or on 
job-wide resources in the selection directive.

Jobs that are finished or moved are listed only when the 
.I -x
or 
.I -H 
options are used.  Otherwise, job selection is limited to queued 
and running jobs.
.SH OPTIONS
When an option is specified with a optional
.I op
component to the option argument, then
.I op
specifies a relation between the value of
a certain job attribute and the value component of the option argument.
If an
.I op
is allowable on an option, then the description of the option letter
will indicate the
.I op
is allowable.
The only acceptable strings for the
.I op
component, and the relation the string indicates, are shown in the following
list of relations:
.LP
.B Relations
.RS 5
.IP .eq. 6
the value represented by the
attribute of the job is equal to the value represented by the
option argument.
.IP .ne. 6
the value represented by the
attribute of the job is not equal to the value represented by the
option argument.
.IP .ge. 6
the value represented by the
attribute of the job is greater than or equal to the value represented by the
option argument.
.IP .gt. 6
the value represented by the
attribute of the job is greater than the value represented by the
option argument.
.IP .le. 6
the value represented by the
attribute of the job is less than or equal to the value represented by the
option argument.
.IP .lt. 6
the value represented by the
attribute of the job is less than the value represented by the
option argument.
.RE
.B List of Options
.IP "-a [op]\^date_time " 10
.B Deprecated.  
Restricts selection to a specific execution time, or a range of 
execution times.
.IP
The 
.B qselect
command selects only jobs for which the value of the
.I Execution_Time
attribute is related to the
.I date_time
argument by the optional
.I op
operator.  The
.I date_time
argument is in the form of the date_time operand of the touch(1)
command:
.I "[[CC]YY]MMDDhhmm[.SS]"
.br
where the MM is the two digits for the month, DD is the day of the
month, hh is the hour, mm is the minute, and the optional SS is the
seconds.  CC is the century and YY the year.
.IP 
If
.I op
is not specified, jobs will be selected for which the
.I Execution_Time
and
.I date_time
values are equal.
If
.I op
is specified, jobs will be selected according to the definitions 
given in 
.B Relations
above.

.IP "-A account_string" 10
Restricts selection to jobs whose 
.I Account_Name
attribute matches the specified
.I account_string .
.IP "-c [\^op\^]\^interval" 10
Restricts selection to jobs whose 
.I Checkpoint
interval attribute matches the specified relationship.
.IP
The values of the 
.I Checkpoint
attribute are defined to have the following ordered relationship:
.RS 13
.I n\ >\ s\ >\ c=minutes\ >\ c\ >\ u
.RE
.IP
If the optional
.I op
is not specified, jobs will be selected whose
.I Checkpoint
attribute is equal to the 
.I interval
argument.  If 
.I op
is specified, jobs will be selected according to the rules in  
.B Relations
above.

.IP
For an interval value of "u", only ".eq." and ".ne." are valid.
.IP "-h hold_list" 10
Restricts the selection of jobs to those with a specific set of hold types.
Only those jobs will be selected whose
.I Hold_Types
attribute exactly match the value of the
.I hold_list
argument.
.IP
The
.I hold_list
argument is a string consisting of the single letter
.I n ,
or one or more of the letters
.I u,
.I o,
.I p,
or 
.I s 
in any combination.  If letters are duplicated, they are treated as if they
occurred once.
The letters represent the hold types:
  n - none
  u - user
  o - other
  p - bad password
  s - system
.RE
.IP "-H" 10
Restricts selection to finished and moved jobs.
.IP "-J" 10
Limits the selection to job arrays only.
.IP "-l resource_list" 10
Restricts selection of jobs to those with specified resource amounts.
Users without operator or manager privilege cannot specify custom resources
which were created to be invisible to users.
.IP
The 
.I resource_list
is in the following format:
.br
resource_name op value[,resource_name op val,...]
.br
The relation operator
.I op
must be present.
.IP
This option can be used only on job-wide resources, and on the chunk-level 
resources that are summed in the job's 
.I Resource_List 
attribute.  This option cannot be used to select at the chunk level.

See the operator definitions given in 
.B Relations
above.

.IP "-N name" 10
Restricts selection of jobs to those with a specific name.
.IP "-p [op]priority" 10
Restricts selection of jobs to those with a priority that matches the
specified relationship.  If
.I op
is not specified, jobs are selected for which the job
.I Priority
attribute is equal to the
.I priority
.IP
If the
.I op
is specified, the relationship is defined in 
.B Relations
above.

.IP "-P project" 10

Restricts selection of jobs to those matching the specified 
.I project.

Format: String.
.br
Project name can contain any characters except for the following:
Slash ("/"), left bracket ("["), right bracket ("]"), double quote ("""), 
semicolon (";"), colon (":"), vertical bar ("|"), left angle bracket ("<"), 
right angle bracket (">"), plus ("+"), comma (","), question mark ("?"), 
and asterisk ("*").

.IP "-q destination" 10
Restricts selection to those jobs residing at the specified destination.
.IP
The
.I destination
may be of one of the following three forms:
.RS 13
.I "queue"
.br
.I "@server"
.br
.I "queue@server"
.RE
.IP
If the 
.I -q
option is not specified, jobs will be selected from the default server.
.IP
If the
.I destination
describes only a queue, only jobs in that queue on the default batch server
will be selected.
.IP
If the
.I destination
describes only a server, then jobs in all queues on that server will be
selected.
.IP
If the
.I destination
describes both a queue and a server, then only jobs in the named queue on
the named server will be selected.
.IP \-r\ rerun
Restricts selection of jobs to those with the specified
.I Rerunnable
attribute.  The option argument must be a single character.  The following
two characters are supported by PBS:
.I y
and
.I n .
.IP "-s states" 10
Restricts job selection to those in the specified states.
.IP
The
.I states
argument is a character string which consists of any combination of the
characters:
.I B
, 
.I E
, 
.I F
,
.I H
,
.I M
,
.I Q
,
.I R
,
.I S
,
.I T
,
.I U
,
and
.I W.
[A repeated character will be accepted, but no additional meaning is
assigned to it.]
.IP
Job
.I states:

.RS 
.nf
B   Job array has started execution.
E   The Exiting state.
F   The Finished state.
H   The Held state.
M   The Moved state.
Q   The Queued state.
R   The Running state.
S   The Suspended state.
T   The Transiting state.
U   Job suspended due to workstation user activity.
W   The Waiting state.
X   The eXited state.  Subjobs only.
.fi
.RE

.IP
Jobs will be selected which are in any of the specified states.
Since array jobs are never in states R, S, T, or U,  if those states are
specified, no array job will be selected.   Subjobs of the array in those 
states may be selected if -T is specified.

.IP "-t suboption [comparison] specified-time"
Allows jobs to be selected according to their time attributes.
The suboption is one of:
.IP 
Suboption  Time Attribute Selected
.br
----------------------------------
.br
a          Execution_Time
.br
c          ctime
.br
e          etime
.br
g          eligible_time
.br
m          mtime
.br
q          qtime
.br
s          stime
.br
t          estimated.start_time

The comparison is one of the relations listed above in 
.B Relations.
.br
The 
.I specified-time 
is in datetime format.  See
.B FORMATS.
.br
A time period can be bracketed by using the 
.I -t
option twice.
.br
For example, to select jobs using stime between noon and 3 p.m.:
.br
qselect -ts.gt.09251200 -ts.lt.09251500

.IP "-T"
Limits selection to job and subjob identifiers.

.IP "-u user_list" 10
Restricts selection to jobs owned by the specified user names.
.IP
This provides a means of limiting the selection to jobs owned by one or
more users.
.IP
The syntax of the
.I user_list
is:
.RS 14
.I "user_name[@host][,user_name[@host],...]"
.RE
.IP
Host names may be wild carded on the left end, e.g. "*.nasa.gov".
User_name without a "@host" is equivalent to "user_name@*", that is at any host.
Jobs will be selected which are owned by the listed users at the
corresponding hosts.
.LP
.IP "-x" 10
Allows selection of finished and moved jobs in addition to queued and running jobs.

.IP "-X" 10
Allows selection of completed or deleted subjobs (subjobs in X state).

.IP "--version" 10
The 
.B qselect
command returns its PBS version information and exits.
This option can only be used alone.

.SH FORMATS
.IP "Datetime Format" 4
.I "[[[[CC]YY]MM]DD]hhmm[.SS]"

.SH STANDARD OUTPUT
The list of job identifiers of selected jobs is written to standard output.
Each job identifier is separated by white space.
Each job identifier is of the form:
.RS 4
.I "sequence_number.server_name@server"
.RE
Where
.I "sequence_number.server"
is the identifier assigned at submission time, see
.BR qsub .
.I @server
identifies the server which currently owns the job.
.SH STANDARD ERROR
The 
.B qselect 
command will write a diagnostic message to standard error for
each error occurrence.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Upon successful processing of all options presented to the
.B qselect 
command, the exit status will be a value of zero.
.LP
If the 
.B qselect 
command fails to process any option, the
command exits with a value greater than zero.
.SH SEE ALSO
The
.B PBS Professional User's Guide,
the
.B PBS Professional Administrator's Guide,
.br
qalter(1B),
qdel(1B),
qhold(1B),
qmove(1B),
qrls(1B),
qstat(1B),
qsub(1B), 
pbs_job_attributes(7B),
pbs_resources(7B)

